Coffee Agreement for a period of one year from October 1, 1943.
2. To urge the participating Governments to inform the Inter-American Coffee Board, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article XXIV, as soon as possible, of their acceptance or otherwise of the present recommendation.

APPENDIX NO. 37 Meeting No. 37 September 17, 1942

DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES OF THE INTER-AMERICAN COFFEE BOARD

The Inter-American Coffee Board, as the organization charged with the administration of the Inter-American Cof­ fee Agreement, has steadfastly stood, and will continue to stand for certain important principles. These may be sum­ marized briefly as follows:

1. The orderly marketing of coffee with a view to assuring terms of trade equitable for both producers and consumers.

2. The maintenance, in so far as possible, of the normal and usual operation of the coffee trade.

3. Full cooperation between all the participating countries, with a view to reaching all decisions by unanimous approval.

4. Strict compliance by each participating Gov­ ernment with its obligations under the Inter-American Coffee Agreement.

5. Administration of the Agreement in such a way as to avoid any unnecessary inconvenience to the coffee industry and trade in producing or consuming countries.

6. Improvement in the quality of coffee, for the benefit of both producers and consumers.

[135]

 
7. Faithful fulfillment of contracts in commercial dealings, as a system which provides a useful method for handling the coffee business with benefits for producers, middlemen and consumers alike.

8. To seek such information as it may deem nec­ essary to the proper operation and administration of this Agreement; and to publish such information as it may consider desirable for the common benefit of pro­ ducers, middlemen, consumers, and all persons inter­ ested in the coffee trade.

9. To consult with the coffee industry and trade and to afford all interested persons an opportunity to express to the Board their views concerning the opera­ tion of the Agreement.

APPENDIX NO. 38 Meeting No. 38 September 29, 1942

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING COUNTRIES WHICH HAVE NOT FILLED THEIR QUOTAS TO ADD THE DEFICIENCY TO THEIR NEXT YEAR’S QUOTA UP TO 10% OF THE
EXISTING QUOTA

WHEREAS:

Some of the producing cotmtries, owing to extraordi­ nary unfavorable circumstances, will not be able to export to the United States the total amount of their quotas for the quota year 1941-42,

THE INTER-AMERICAN COFFEE BOARD

RESOLVES:

1. In accordance with the provisions of Section 3, Article IV of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement, to authorize those countries which during the quota year of

1941-42 may not be able to fill the quotas assigned them under the Inter-American Coffee Agreement to add to their respective quotas for the following year the difference not exported up to the limit of 10% of their quota for the previous year.

2. To fix in a later resolution the exact amount which each of the countries affected may export during the fol­ lowing quota year in accordance with this resolution.

[137]

[136]

 
VI. INTER-AMERICAN COFFEE AGREEMENT

The Governments of Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guat­ emala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, the

Jnited States of America and Venezuela,

CONSIDERING
that in view of the unbalanced situation in the international trade in coffee affecting the economy of the Western Hem­ isphere, it is necessary and desirable to take steps to promote the orderly marketing of coffee, with a view to assuring terms of trade equitable for both producers and consumers

by adjusting the supply to demand, Have accordingly agreed as follows:

Article I

In order to allocate equitably the market of the United States of America for coffee among the various coffee pro- during countries, the following quotas are adopted as basic annual quotas for the exportation of coffee to the United States of America from the other countries participating in this agreement:

El Salvador Guatemala Haiti ........

Honduras . Mexico... Nicaragua Peru........ Venezuela

600,000 535.000 275.000

20,000

475.000 195.000 25,000 420.000

Producing Country

Brazil............................................ 7,813,000 Colombia...................................... 1,079,000

Brazil .....................
Colombia ......
Costa Rica .................................. Cuba ............................................ Dominican Republic.................. Ecuador........................................

[ 138]

9,300,000 3,150,000 200,000 80,000 120,000 150,000

Costa Rica.................................... Cuba ............................................ Dominican Republic.................... Ecuador........................................ El Salvador .................................. Guatemala....................................

[ 139]

242,000 62,000 13 8,000 89,000 527,000 312,000

Bags of 60 Kilograms Net,

or Equivalent Quantities

Producing Country

Bags of 60 Kilograms Net, or Equivalent

Quantities

Total................ ..........15,545,000

For the control of the quotas for the United States market, the official import statistics compiled by the United States Department of Commerce shall be used.

Article II

The following quotas have been adopted as basic annual quotas for the exportation of coffee to the market outside the United States from the other countries participating in this Agreement:

 
Haiti . . . Honduras Mexico . .

Nicaragua Peru .... Venezuela

327.000

21,000

239.000 114.000 43,000 606.000

provided in Article IV, V and VII. Nevertheless, the Board shall not have the authority to distribute these quotas among determined countries or regions of the market out­ side the United States.

Article IV

Each producing country participating in this Agreement undertakes to limit its coffee exports to the United States of America during each quota year, to its respective export

quota.

In the event that, due to unforeseen circumstances, a country’s total exports of coffee to the United States of America exceed in any quota year its export quota for the United States market, that quota for the following year shall be decreased by the amount of the excess.

If any producing country participating in this Agree­ ment has exported in any quota year less than its quota for the United States market, the Board may increase that country’s quota for the immediately following quota year by an amount equal to the deficiency for the preceding quota year, up to the limit of 10 percent of the quota for such previous year.

The provisions of this Article shall also apply to the export quotas for the market outside the United States.

Any exportation of coffee to the market outside the United States which may be lost by fire, inundation or any other accident, before arriving at any foreign port, shall not be charged against the quota of the respective country corresponding to the date of shipment, provided that the loss is duly established before the Inter-American Coffee Board.

[141]

Total....................................11,612,000 Article III

The Inter-American Coffee Board provided for in Ar­ ticle IX of this Agreement shall have the authority to in­ crease or decrease the quotas for the United States market in order to adjust supplies to estimated requirements. No such increase or decrease shall be made oftener than once every six months nor shall any change at any one time exceed 5 percent of the basic quotas specified in Article I. The total increase or decrease in the first quota year shall not exceed 5 percent of such basic quotas. Any increase or

decrease in the quotas shall remain in effect until superseded by a new change in quotas, and the quotas for any quota year shall be calculated by applying to the basic quotas the weighted average of the changes made by the Board during the same year. Except as provided in Articles IV, V and VII, the percentage of each of the participating countries in the total quantity of coffee which these countries may export to the United States market shall be maintained unchanged.

The Board shall also have the authority to increase or decrease the export quotas for the market outside the United States to the extent that it deems necessary to adjust supplies to estimated requirements, maintaining unchanged the per­ centage of each of the participating countries in the total quantity of coffee to be exported to that market, except as

[140]

 
Article V

In view of the possibility of changes in the demand for coffee of a particular origin in the market outside the United States, the Board is empowered, by a two-thirds vote, to transfer, on the request of any participating country, a part of that country*s quota for the United States market to its quota for the market outside the United States in order to bring about a better balance between supply and demand in special types of coffee. In such cases, the Board is author­ ized to make up the resulting deficiency in the total quota for the United States market by increasing the quotas of the

other producing countries participating in this agreement in proportion to their basic quotas.

Article VI

Each producing country participating in this Agree­ ment shall take all measures necessary on its part for the execution and operation of this Agreement and shall issue for each coffee shipment an official document certifying that the shipment is within the corresponding quota fixed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.

Article VII

The Government of the United States of America shall take all measures necessary on its part for the execution and operation of this Agreement and shall limit, during each quota year, the entry for consumption into the United States of America of coffee produced in the countries listed in Article I to the quotas as established in the said Article or as modified pursuant to other provisions of this Agree­ ment, it being understood that notice of any modified quotas will be communicated by the Board to the Govern­ ments of the countries participating in this Agreement.

[142]

The Government of the United States of America also undertakes to limit the total entry for consumption of coffee produced in countries other than those listed in Article I of this Agreement to a basic annual quota of 355,000 bags of 60 kilograms net or equivalent quantities. The quota on such coffee shall be increased or decreased by the same pro­ portion and at the same time as the global quota of the par­ ticipating countries for the United States market.

In the event that due to unforeseen circumstances any quota is exceeded during any quota year, that quota for the following year shall be decreased by the mount of the excess.

Article VIII

In the event that there should be foreseen an immi­ nent shortage of coffee in the United States market in rela­ tion to its requirements, the Inter-American Coffee Board shall have the authority, as an emergency measure, to increase the quotas for the United States market, in proportion to the basic quotas, up to the quantity necessary to satisfy these requirements even though in this manner the limits specified in Article III may be exceeded. Any member of the Board may request such an increase and the increase may be author­ ized by a one-third vote of the Board.

When, owing to special circumstances, it may be nec­ essary for the purposes of the present Agreement to reduce the quotas for the United States market by a percentage greater than that established in Article III, the Inter-Ameri­ can Coffee Board shall also have the authority to exceed the percentage of reduction beyond the limits established by the said Article III, provided that this is approved by the unan­ imous vote of the Board.

[143]

 
Article IX

The present Agreement shall be under the administra­ tion of a Board, which shall be known as the "Inter-Ameri­ can Coffee Board”, and which shall be composed of dele­ gates representing the Governments of the participating countries.

Each Government shall appoint a delegate to the Board upon approval of the Agreement. In the absence of the delegate of any participating country, his Government shall appoint an alternate who shall act in place of the delegate. Subsequent appointments shall be communicated by the respective Governments to the Chairman of the Board.

The Board shall elect from among its members a Chair­ man and a Vice Chairman who shall hold office for such period as it may determine.

The seat of the Board shall be in Washington, D. C.

Article X *

The Board shall have the following powers and duties in addition to those specifically set forth in other Articles of this Agreement;

(a) The general administration of the present Agree­ ment;

(b) To appoint any employees that it may consider necessary and determine their powers, duties, compensation and duration of employment;

(c) To appoint an Exective Committee and such other permanent or temporary committees as it considers advis­ able, and to determine their functions and duties;

[144]

(d) To approve an annual budget of expenses and fix the amount to be contributed by each participating Gov­ ernment, in accordance with the principles laid down in Article XIII;

(e) To seek such information as it may deem necessary to the proper operation and administration of this Agree­ ment; and to publish such information as it may consider desirable;

(f) To make an annual report covering all of its activ­ ities and any other matters of interest in connection with this Agreement at the end of each quota year. This report shall be transmitted to each of the participating Govern­

ments.

Article XI

The Board shall undertake, as soon as possible, a study of the problem of coffee surpluses in the producing coun­ tries participating in this Agreement, and shall also take appropriate steps with a view to working out satisfactory methods of financing the storage of such surpluses in cases where such action is urgently needed to stabilize the coffee industry. Upon request, the Board shall assist and advise any participating Government which may desire to nego­ tiate loans in connection with the operation of this Agree­ ment. The Board is also authorized to render assistance in matters relating to the classification, storage and handling of coffee.

Article XII

The Board shall appoint a Secretary and take all other necessary measures to establish a Secretariat which shall be entirely free and independent of any other national or inter­ national organization or institution.

[ 145 ]

 
Article XIII

The expenses of delegates to the Board shall be defrayed by their respective Governments.. All other expenses nec­ essary for the administration of the present Agreement, in­ cluding those of the Secretariat, shall be met by annual contributions of the Governments of the participating coun­ tries. The total amount, manner and time of payment shall be determined by the Board by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the votes. The contribution of each Gov­ ernment shall be proportionate to the total of its respective basic quotas, except that the Government of the United States of America will accept as its contribution an amount equal to 33 54 percent of the total required contribution.

Article XIV

Regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the first Tuesday of January, April, July and October. Special meetings shall be called by the Chairman at any other time at his discretion, or upon written request of delegates rep­ resenting not less than five of the participating Govern­ ments, or fifteen percent of the quotas specified in Article I, or one third of the votes established in Article XV. Notice of all special meetings shall be communicated to the dele­ gates not less than three days before the date fixed for the meeting.

The presence of delegates representing not less than 75 percent of the total votes of all the participating Govern­ ments shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for a meet­ ing. Any participating Government may, through its dele­ gate, by written notice to the Chairman, appoint the dele­ gate of another participating Government to represent it and to vote on its behalf at any meeting of the Board.

[146]

Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, deci­ sions of the Board shall be taken by a simple majority of the votes, it being understood that, in every case, the computa­ tion shall be calculated on the basis of the total votes of all the participating Governments.

Article XV

The votes to be exercised by the delegates of the partici­ pating Governments shall be as follows:

Brazil .................................................. 9 Colombia ............................................ 3 Costa Rica .......................................... 1 Cuba .................................................... 1 Dominican Republic.......................... 1 Ecuador .............................................. 1 El Salvador.......................................... 1 Guatemala .................................... 1 Haiti.................................................... 1 Honduras .......... 1 Mexico ................................... 1 Nicaragua............................................ 1 Peru ..................... 1 United States ofAmerica.................... 12 Venezuela............................................ 1

Total............................ 36

Article XVI

The official reports of the Board to the participating Governments shall be written in the four official languages of the Pan American Union.

[1471

4

 
Article XVII

The participating Governments agree to maintain, in so far as possible, the normal and usual operation of the coffee trade.

Article XVIII

The Board is authorized to appoint advisory commit­ tees in the important markets, to the end that consumers, importers and distributors of green and roasted coffee, as well as other interested persons, may be given an oppor­ tunity to express their views concerning the operation of the program established under this Agreement.

Article XIX

If the delegate of any participating Government alleges that any participating Government has failed to comply with the obligations of the present Agreement, the Board shall decide whether any infringement of the Agreement has taken place, and, if so, what measures shall be recom­ mended to correct the situation arising therefrom.

Article XX

The present Agreement shall be deposited with the Pan American Union at Washington, which shall transmit authentic certified copies thereof to the signatory Govern­

ments.

The Agreement shall be ratified or approved by each of the signatory Governments in accordance with its legal requirements and shall come into force when the instru­ ments of ratification or approval of all the signatory Gov­ ernments have been deposited with the Pan American Union.

[148]

As soon as possible after the deposit of any ratification the Pan American Union shall inform each of the signatory Governments thereof.

If, within ninety days from the date of signature of this Agreement, the instruments of ratification or approval of all the signatory Governments have not been deposited, the Governments which have deposited their instruments of ratification or approval may put the Agreement into force among themselves by means of a Protocol. Such Protocol shall be deposited with the Pan American Union, which shall furnish certified copies thereof to each of the Governments on behalf of which the Protocol or the present Agreement was signed.

Article XXI

As long as the present Agreement remains in force, it shall prevail over provisions inconsistent therewith which may be contained in any other agreement previously con­ cluded between any of the participating Governments. Upon the termination of the present Agreement, all the provisions which may have been temporarily suspended by virtue of this Agreement shall automatically again become operative unless they have been definitively terminated for other rea­

sons.

Article XXII

The present Agreement shall apply, on the part of the United States of America, to the customs territory of the United States. Exports to the United States of America and quotas for the United States market shall be understood to refer to the customs territory of the United States.

[149]

 
Article XXIII

For the purpose of this Agreement the following defi­ nitions are adopted:

(1) "Quota year” means the period of twelve months beginning October 1, and ending September 30 of the fol­ lowing calendar year.

(2) "Producing countries participating in this Agree­ ment” means all participating countries except the United States of America.

(3) "The Board” means the Inter-American Cofiee Board provided for in Article DC

Article XXIV

Subject to the eventuality covered by Article XXV, the present Agreement shall remain in force until October 1,

1943.

Not less than one year prior to October 1, 1943 the Board shall make recommendations to the participating Gov­ ernments as to the continuation or otherwise of the Agree­ ment. The recommendations, if in favor of continuation, may suggest amendments to the Agreement.

Each participating Government shall signify to the Board its acceptance or rejection of the recommendations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph within six months after the date of the receipt of such recommenda­ tions. This period may be extended by the Board.

If said recommendations are accepted by all the partici­ pating Governments, the participating Governments under-

[1501

take to take such measures as may be necessary to carry out said recommendations. The Board shall draw up a declara­ tion certifying the terms of said recommendations and their acceptance by all the participating Governments, and the present Agreement shall be deemed to be amended in accord­ ance with this declaration as from the date specified therein. A certified copy of the declaration together with a certified copy of the Agreement as amended shall be communicated to the Pan American Union and to each of the participating Governments.

The same procedure for making amendments or for the continuation of the Agreement may be followed at any other time.

Article XXV

Any of the participating Governments may withdraw from the present Agreement after prior notification of one year to the Pan American Union which shall promptly in­ form the Board. If one or more participating Governments representing 20 percent or more of the total quotas specified in Aurticle I of this Agreement withdraw therefrom, the Agreement will thereupon terminate.

Article XXVI

In the event that because of special and extraordinary circumstances the Board should believe that the period fixed by Article XXIV for the duration of this Agreement might be reduced, it shall immediately notify all the participating Governments which, by unanimous agreement, may decide to terminate this Agreement prior to October 1, 1943.

[151]

 
Transitory Article

All coffee entered for consumption into the United States of America between October 1, 1940 and September 30, 1941, both inclusive, shall be charged against the quotas for the first quota year.

All coffee exported to the market outside the United States between October 1, 1940 and September 30, 1941, both inclusive, shall be charged against the quotas for the first quota year.

Done at the City of "Washington, in English, Spanish, Portuguese and French, the twenty-eighth day of November,

1940.

FOR BRAZIL—(S) E. Penteado
FOR COLOMBIA—(S) M. Mejia
FOR COSTA RICA—(S) Octavio Beeche FOR CUBA—(S) Pedro Martinez Fraga FOR THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC—

(S) A. Pastoriza
FOR ECUADOR—(S) C. E. Alfaro FOR EL SALVADOR—

(S) Hector David Castro FOR GUATEMALA—

(S) Enrique Lopez Herrarte
FOR HAITI—(S) E. Lescot
FOR HONDURAS—(S) Julian R. Caceres FOR MEXICO—

(S) A. Espinosa de los Monteros
FOR NICARAGUA—(S) Leon De Bayle
FOR PERU—(S) Eduardo Garland
FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA—

(S) Sumner Welles .
FOR VENEZUELA—(S) Luis Coll-Pardo

[ 152]