3IANNINI POUNDATIOS
®lANHlMr

THE INTER-AMERICAN COFFEE BOARD

FIRST ANNUAL REPORT

April 17, 1941 - September 30, 1942

Respectfully submitted to the Governments of

Brazil Ecuador Mexico

Colombia El Salvador Nicaragua

Costa Rica Guatemala Peru

Cuba Haiti United States of America

Dominican Republic Honduras Venezuela

in accordance with the provisions of Article X of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement of November 28, 1940.

M538966

The Delegates to the Inter-American Cofee Board

Have the Honor to Dedicate the Bresent Report to

the Governments and Statesmen of the American Republics

Who Have, by their Foresight and Constructive Action,

Made Possible the Practical Program Herein Described

and Contributed so Effectively to the

High Ideal of Inter-American Cooperation.

\

\

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

L Foreword ........................................... 3

n. Major Activities of theBoard............................ 9

III. Summary of Minutes.......................................... 43

IV. List of Appendices.............................................. 54

V. Appendices.......................................................... 58

VI. Inter-American CoffeeAgreement..................... 138

'OT'

FOREWORD

It would be difficult to exaggerate the importance of

coffee in the economic life of the American republics. All

the American republics consume coffee in appreciable quan

tities, and in fourteen of these republics it is regularly pro

duced for export. Of all the commodities imported by the

United States from the other American republics, coffee is

by far the greatest in value. The proceeds derived from its

sale abroad are widely distributed among the inhabitants of

the exporting country. So closely is coffee allied to the day- to-day living conditions of so many people that it constitutes

an admirable economic barometer for those countries where

its production is important. We are all familiar with the

huge export crops of Brazil and Colombia; but perhaps less

well known is the fact that in normal times coffee represents

approximately 90% by value of all exports from the Republic

of El Salvador. In other words, not only is the volume of

trade tremendous in the larger producing countries, but the

proportion of coffee in the export trade of many of the

smaller producing countries is very high. It is apparent,

therefore, that the prosperity and well-being of the Ameri

can coffee-producing republics depend in large measure on

the maintenance of stable and orderly market conditions

for this crop.

The economic benefits to be derived from

a prosper

ous export trade in coffee are to be measured not only in

terms of the direct proceeds received by exporters and

growers, but also in

a variety of indirect ways. The foreign

exchange difficulties experienced in recent years by most

of the American republics were greatly aggravated by the

depressed export prices for coffee during that period. To

the extent that improved marketing conditions bring about

increased foreign exchange availabilities in such countries,

to that extent local currencies are strengthened and problems

of arbitrary and enforced exchange controls alleviated.

Furthermore, increased purchasing power in the producing

countries, combined with increased availabilities of dollar

exchange, makes it possible for those countries to increase

proportionately their purchases of manufactured goods and

foodstuffs, and to service more adequately their dollar finan- cial obligations, whether commercial or governmental. Cof- fee exemplifies perhaps more than any other commodity the

essential nature of international trade, i.e., an exchange of

goods rather than a mere process of selling. If a normal and

stable market for coffee ceases to exist, normal two-way

trade becomes unbalanced and serious consequences result.

This was precisely the situation during the decade pre- ceding the outbreak of the European war. In 1931 Brazil

commenced its current program of coffee destruction, in

order to avoid the accumulation of surpluses, and in that

way attempted to prevent the price of exported coffee from

falling to ruinous levels. Other producing countries natural- ly benefited by the Brazilian program. It is apparent that

under such conditions the coffee trade was operating on an

abnormal basis, and that sooner or later corrective action

would have to be taken.

It was yrith this end in view that certain coffee-produc- ing countries, cognizant of their common problem, sent dele- gates to the First Pan American Coffee Conference, held at

Bogota, Colombia, in October 1936. At that Conference

various proposed measures intended to be of benefit to the

coffee trade were discussed, including the highly controver- sial questions of export quotas and price controls. No defini­

[4]

tive agreements were reached, and accordingly there was

convened at Habana, Cuba, in August 1937 the Second Pan

American Coffee Conference. The basic problem still re- mained unsolved, however, and market conditions deter- iorated still further.

This unstable condition in the coffee market, character- ized by excess supplies, destruction of coffee surpluses in

Brazil, and depressed prices, continued up to the outbreak of

the European war in September 1939. From that point on

the situation deteriorated even further. The abrupt cur- tailment of the important European market due to war

conditions greatly aggravated the surplus problem and forced

prices down still further to ruinous levels. With the normal

market for around 10,000,000 bags of coffee almost com- pletely cut off, there developed uncontrolled competitive

efforts to dump in the United States market—the only large

and completely accessible market still open—excessive quan- tities of coffee at disastrous prices. The outlook for coffee

producers in the early months of 1940 could hardly have

been less promising.

Confronted by conditions far worse than those which

they had previously experienced, the coffee-producing Amer- ican republics once more convened for the Third Pan

American Coffee Conference, held in New York during the

months of June and July, 1940. The United States Govern- ment manifested a sympathetic interest in the objectives of

this Conference, and at the invitation of the Conference the

Department of State sent a representative to be present at

the meetings in the capacity of observer. A tentative plan

for export quotas was drawn up by the Conference, but

since it failed to obtain the approval of all of the Govern­

[5]

ments the problem still remained unsolved. Meanwhile, new

crops were coming on the market shortly, at the same time

that war conditions were becoming intensified.

It was at this juncture that the Inter-American Finan- cial and Economic Advisory Committee, which had been

created by the First Meeting of Foreign Ministers of the

American Republic held at Panama in 1939, and which had

been given broad powers by the Second Meeting of Ministers

of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics, at Habana in

1940, undertook to study the problem with a view to work- ing out a cooperative solution. This Committee appointed

a Subcommittee on Coffee, which immediately undertook the

arduous task of drawing up a plan for meeting the coffee

crisis. These negotiations of the Subcommittee on Coffee

lasted from August until November 28, 1940, the date on

which fourteen American coffee-producing republics and the

United States signed the Inter-American Coffee Agreement.

During the following months the participating coun- tries, following their respective constitutional procedures,

took the necessary steps to bring the Agreement into effective

operation. Following ratification by a number of the coun- tries the Agreement was brought into effect by means of a

protocol signed on April 15, 1941, at the Pan American

Union. From that date the Inter-American Coffee Agree- ment has been legally effective, and it is the purpose of the

present Report to describe its operation and administration

by the Inter-American Coffee Board.

The present Report covers the activities of the Inter- American Coffee Board in its administration of the Agree- ment from April 17, 1941, the date of the first meeting of the

Board, until September 30, 1942, the end of the second

[6]

quota year. The major activities of the Board are described

under separate headings, providing in this way a convenient

summary of the Board’s handling of certain important

problems. This section of the Report is followed by a

chronological summary of the minutes of each meeting of the

Board since its inception, giving the date and number of

each meeting and a list of the subjects discussed. Appended

to the Report are the full ofl&cial texts of all resolutions ap- proved by the Board, and other important official docu- ments throwing light on its activities. In the final section

of the Report there is reproduced the complete text of the

Inter-American Coffee Agreement, in order that all of its

provisions may be readily available for convenient reference.

The Board believes that the material presented herewith is

adequate to enable the reader to inform himself fully re- garding the Board’s activities, and to reach his own conclusion

regarding the results achieved.

This Report is necessarily concerned with the factual

details and technical aspects of the operation and adminis- tration of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement. Never- theless, the Report would not be complete if mention were

not made at this point of the high spirit of cooperation which

has been achieved by the Board in facing important problems,

and the development of a common aspiration to work for

the common welfare in all matters related to coffee. Indi- vidual interests are brought before the Board and discussed,

as a natural and logical function of the Board; but the Dele- gates all are motivated by a sincere desire to reconcile in so

far as may be possible the individual interests involved with

those of the entire coffee community. It is the hope of the

Delegates, in submitting this Report of their activities, that

[7]

this same high ideal will be reflected in all countries and have

a beneficent effect on the entire coffee industry.

Eurico Venteado

Brazil

Enrique Lopez Herrarte

Guatemala

Mario Camargo

Colombia

Andre Liautaud

Haiti

Luis Fernandez

Costa Rica

Julian R. Cdceres

Honduras

Felipe de Pazos

Cuba

Humberto Lombardo Toledano

Mexico

Rafael A. Espaillat

Dominican Republic

Leon DeBayle

Nicaragua

Emilio A. Maulme

Ecuador

Juan Chavez

Peru

Roberto Aguilar Trigueros

El Salvador

Paul C. Daniels

United States of America

/. H. Scholtz

Venezuela

II. MAJOR ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD

The major activities of the Inter-American Coffee Board,

from its first meeting on April 17, 1941, to September 30,

1942, are summarized and briefly discussed below under the

following headings:

1. Election of Officers

2. Organization of the Secretariat

3. Adjustment of Quotas under Article III

4. Adjustment of Quotas under Article VIII

5. Advance Shipments

6. Statistics

7. Relations with the United States Coffee Trade

8. Diverted Shipments

9. Minimum Prices

10. Maximum Prices

11. Export Certificates

12. Unfilled Quotas

13. Samples

14. Market Outside the United States

15. Non-signatory Countries

\6. Shipping Facilities

17. Wartime Regulations in the United States

18. Renewal of Inter-American Coffee Agreement

1. Election of officers.

The first meeting of the Inter-American Coffee Board

was held on April 17, 1941, at the Pan American Union.

Presiding at the opening of the meeting was the Honorable

Dr. Hector David Castro, Minister of El Salvador to Wash- ington, and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coffee of the

Inter-American Financial and Economic Advisory Com- mittee. The Subcommittee on Coffee had completed its

labors with the final entry into effect of the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement, and on April 17, 1941, turned over its

functions in relation to coffee to the Inter-American Coffee

Board.

The first action taken by the Board was the election of

officers. The results of the elections were as follows:

Chairman, Mr. Paul C. Daniels, United States

Vice Chairman, Senhor Eurico Penteado, Brazil

Members of Executive Committee:

Senor Roberto Aguilar Trigueros, Chairman

Senhor Eurico Penteado

Senor Manuel Mejia

Senor Enrique Lopez Herrarte

Mr. Paul C. Daniels

At the same meeting it was agreed that the tenure of

office of the aforesaid officers of the Board would be for a

period of one year. Accordingly, at the meeting held on

April 7, 1942 elections were again held, and the same officers

were reelected for another period of one year.

The Chairman of the Executive Committee rendered

valuable service to the Board during the period under review

[10]

through his careful supervision of the organization and

administration of the Board’s financial and budgetary prob- lems and other administrative matters. Important adminis- trative matters were generally referred to the Executive Com- mittee for recommendation, prior to approval by the entire

Board.

2.Organization of the Secretariat. ^

Article XII of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement

requires the Board to "appoint a Secretary and take all other

necessary measures to establish a Secretariat which shall be

entirely free and independent of any other national or inter- national organization or institution”. Among the first ac- tions by the Board was the fulfillment of its obligations under

the aforesaid Article XII. After careful consideration the

position of Secretary was offered to Mr. Herbert Delafield,

an experienced and distinguished representative of the United

States coffee trade, past-President of the Associated Coffee

Industries of America (now National Coffee Association)

and co-founder of the joint coffee promotion campaign

undertaken by the Pan American Coffee Bureau in coopera- tion with the National Coffee Association. Much to the

gratification of the Board Mr. Delafield accepted this poa- tion, and his acceptance was enthusiastically welcomed not

only by the Delegates but by the entire United States coffee

industry.

As Assistant Secretary the Board was fortunate in ob- taining the services of Mr. Enrique Lewis Comas, who had

been serving as Secretary of the Inter-American Financial and

Economic Advisory Committee, where a large part of his

work related to the negotiation of the Inter-American Coffee

Agreement by the Subcommittee on Coffee. In June 1942

[11]

Mr. Lewis Comas was given indefinite leave of absence from

his duties with the Board in order to enter the armed forces.

The expenses of the Secretariat are met by annual con- tributions from the participating Governments, in accord- ance with the proportions established by Article XIII of the

Inter-American Coffee Agreement. The Board approved its

budget for the first quota year in the amount of $18,000, and

so informed the participating Governments in a letter ap- proved by the Board on May 8, 1942 (Appendix No. 4).

By a resolution of July 1, 1941 the Board approved its

budget for the second quota year ending September 30,

1942, in the amount of $24,000 (Appendix No. 10). Similar

action was taken by the Board at its meeting of August 5,

1942 when it approved its budget for the third quota year

in the same amount (Appendix No. 34). At the end of the

period under review the Board’s finances were in satisfactory

condition, with a cash balance in the Riggs National Bank of

Washington of $26,106.5 5. It should be noted, however, that

during this period the Board published no report of its activi- ties, and that the anticipated expenses for the publication of

such a report will constitute an important item of expendi- ture.

The first few meetings of the Board were held in the Pan

American Union, but in July 1941 the Board became in- stalled in its own offices at 2400 16th Street, Washington,

D. C. The Secretariat functions in these offces, and meet- ings of the Board are likewise held there. The quarters are

very satisfactory for the Board’s purposes, providing excel- lent offce space, a large size Board room, and a convenient

location in a large building of good appearance.

[12]

It is the desire of the Delegates to the Board that its

offces be considered by all members of the coffee trade, all

offcials from any country interested in coffee, and the public

at large as a central meeting point for the exchange of in- formation relating to coffee. Close contact is maintained by

Mr. Delafield with all Government agencies in Washington,

and in fact one of the most useful services which the Board

has been glad to perform through the Secretariat is the main- tenance and establishment of intimate contact between all

persons and entities interested in coffee. This new facility,

which has never before existed, has been particularly useful

during the trying period brought about by the war, and is

referred to in Section 17, "Wartime Regulations in the United

States”. It is the sincere hope of the entire Board that its use- fulness in this broad field of action, which far transcends its

immediate duties in connection with the adjustment of the

quotas, may contribute with increasing effectiveness to the

elimination of misunderstandings and diffculties and to its

basic objective, the orderly marketing of coffee.

3. Adjustment of qtwtas under Article III,

Article III of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement

provides that the Inter-American Coffee Board "shall have

the authority to increase or decrease the quotas for the United

States market in order to adjust supplies to estimated require- ments”. In order to avoid in so far as possible speculative

activity in the coffee market whenever the Board should hold

a meeting, it was provided that these normal or routine quota

adjustments should take place no oftener than once every six

months, and that any change at any one time should not ex- ceed 5% of the basis quotas specified in Article I. The

adjustment of quotas under Article III is one of the basic im- portant functions of the Inter-American Coffee Board.

During the period covered by this Report, that is to say,

April 17, 1941, to September 30, 1942, the Board has twice

authorized changes in the quotas in accordance with the fore- going procedure. At the very first meeting of the Board,

held on April 17, 1941, the subject was brought up for the

first time, and there was discussion as to whether the quotas

for the United States market should be increased. In the

course of the next few meetings this question was further

discussed, and on May 28, 1941 the Board approved a resolu- tion increasing the quotas for the United States market by 5%

(Appendix No. 7). The reasons for this increase were prim- arily the increased consumption of coffee on the part of the

civilian population of the United States, combined with the

greatly increased consumption by the armed forces.

The increase approved on May 28, 1941, effective June

1, 1941, was 5% of the basic quotas, with the result that

the quotas from June 1 on stood at 105% of the basic quotas.

However, due to the application of the “weighted average”

formula provided in Article III, the net effect of this change

on the quotas for the quota year was only 1.671%, or 259,-

757 bags for the signatory countries.

The next adjustments of the quotas for the United States

market were effected under the provisions of Article VIII of

the Agreement, and are discussed separately in the subsequent

section of this Report. The only other modification of the

quotas under Article III during the period under review was

on February 25, 1942, when the Board approved a resolu- tion increasing the quotas for the United States market by

an additional 5% of the basis quotas, effective February 26,

1942 (Appendix No. 25). This resolution had the effect

of increasing the rate of entry of coffee into the United States

from 110% of the basic quotas to 115%, and the latter

[14'J

figure remained in effect until a subsequent emergency in- crease of the quotas under Article VIII, approved on July 15,

1942.

4. Adjustment of quotas under Article VIIL

In addition to the normal manner for adjusting the

quotas provided for in Article III of the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement, provision is likewise made in Article VIII

of the Agreement for emergency increases in the quotas for

the United States market in the event that there should be

foreseen an imminent shortage of coffee in the United States

market in relation to its requirements. At the time of nego- tiating the Inter-American Coffee Agreement the inclusion

of this Article was deemed to be a necessary safeguard for

protecting the interests of coffee consumers in the United

States against a shortage of coffee brought about artificially

as a result of the operation of the Agreement. Indeed, had

it not been for the inclusion of the safeguards provided in

this Article it is probable that the United States would have

been unwilling to cooperate in the estabHshment of a quota

plan, and that the entire cooperative program for the orderly

marketing of coffee established by the Inter-American Coffee

Agreement would never have been achieved.

An additional advantage of that Article has been that it

has provided an admirable means for giving effect to the

policy of the Inter-American Coffee Board to administer

the Agreement in such a way as to achieve the maximum

flexibility under difficult war conditions. Through its timely

application it has been possible to maintain the uninterrupted

flow of coffee to the United States market from countries

able to supply and ship such coffee at a time when shipping

conditions generally have seriously impeded the movement

[15]

of coffee to the United States. This flexibility has been

achieved without sacrificing in any sense the basic program

for the orderly marketing of coffee established in the other

articles of the Agreement, and has made it possible for the

entire program to continue uninterrupted during the war

period rather than being confronted with the necessity of a

partial or complete suspension of the provisions of the

Agreement.

During the first half of 1941, at a time when civilian

and military consumption of coffee in the United States was

increasing, rising prices in the United States market stimulated

buying and in some cases the speculative withholding of

coffee from the market, with the result that roasting estab- lishments were finding it difficult to meet their require- ments on fair terms. These conditions assumed serious pro- portions during July. With a view to alleviating the

situation and avoiding serious damage to the industry the

Board approved a resolution on August 2, 1941 increasing

the quotas for the United States market by an additional

20%, effective August 11, 1941 (Appendix No. 17). Be- cause of the earlier increase in the quotas under Article III,

effective June 1,1941, the additional 20% increase established

the quotas for the United States market at 125% of the

basis quotas for the ensuing period.

On October 23, 1941, following the conclusion of cer- tain other agreements intended to facilitate the smooth flow

of coffee to the United States market, it was decided that

the emergency increase had remained in effect long enough

to produce the desired results in correcting the abnormal

market situation existing a few months earlier, and accord- ingly, by unanimous vote, the Board approved a resolution ad-

[16]

justing the quotas at 110% of the basic quotas (Appendix

No. 20).

During the first half of 1942 maritime facilities for the

shipment of coffee to the United States became steadily

worse as a result of losses at sea and the heavy burdens placed

on available shipping because of the essential requirements

of war. It became apparent that the effective control of the

volume of coffee moving to the United States market was

imposed solely by shipping availabilities, rather than by the

quota limitations established by the Inter-American Coffee

Agreement. At the same time, however, certain countries

happening to enjoy relatively favorable maritime facilities

were able to export to the United States the full amount of

the quotas as then existing. The Delegates to the Inter- American Coffee Board were unanimously of the opinion that

it was to the general advantage of all coffee-producing

countries, as well as to the United States, for every unneces- sary obstacle to be removed which might impede the freest

possible flow of coffee to the United States from available

sources. Were the Board to fail to take appropriate action

along this line and expose itself to the charge of having con- tributed to the imminent shortage of coffee in the United

States market, the great consuming public would have had a

motive for just and legitimate complaint. As indicated above,

however, the Board spontaneously adopted a policy of flexibi- lity, which found concrete manifestation in its resolution of

July 15, 1942 increasing the quotas to 277% of the basic

quota (Appendix No. 33). This action of the Board was

explained and commented upon in a statement released

simultaneously by the Board, which described actions already

taken to facilitate the movement of coffee to the United

States market and the reasons underlying the resolution of

[17]

July 15 (Appendix No. 32). In the same resolution of July

15 it was provided that at the beginning of the next quota

year on October 1, 1942, the quotas would be set at 110%

of the basic quotas. It was xmderstood that subsequent

changes, if any, in the quotas would be made in the light of

circumstances existing during the coming year.

5. Advance shipments.

Under a rigid application of the quota system it would

be possible for a given producing country to fill its quota for

the United States market long before the end of the quota

year, and then be prevented from making further ship- ments because of the applicable provisions of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement. Any such interruption in the

flow of coffee to the consuming market would bring about an

irregularity in the movement of coffee to the United States,

add to the difficulties of efficient loading and routing of ships,

and in general be contrary to the basic principle of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement which, as stated in the preamble

thereof, is to promote the orderly marketing of coffee.

In recognition of the aforementioned circumstances

the Inter-American Coffee Board has taken action to pro- vide for flexibility in the operation of the quota system so as

to avoid a cessation of shipments towards the end of the

quota year. On May 28, 1941 a resolution was approved by

the Board authorizing advance shipments of coffee from the

producing countries during the current quota year, these

shipments to be charged to the quota for the following year

(Appendix No. 8). The advance shipments authorized by

this resolution were limited to 15 % of the basic quotas.

Similar action was taken by the Board at its meeting

of October 23, 1941, when it again approved a resolution

[18]

authorizing advance shipments chargeable to next year’s

quotas up to the limit of 15% of the basic quotas (Appendix

No. 21).

With the increasing difficulty being encountered in the

shipment of coffee to the United States due to the scarcity of

ships, combined with the fact that some producing countries

were already about to fill their quota for the United States

market, the Board issued a public statement on March 5,

1942 annoimcing its intention to eliminate the existing 15%

limitation on advance shipments if that limit should come to

be an obstacle (Appendix No. 26). In accordance with this

advance statement the Board approved a resolution on April

29, 1942 eliminating the aforesaid limit of 15%, in accord- ance with its policy of administering the quotas in such a way

as to make it possible to utilize all available shipping space

for the transportation of coffee to the United States (Ap- pendix No. 30). This resolution remained in effect during

the remainder of the period covered by this Report.

6. Statistics.

Among the specified powers and duties of the Inter- American Coffee Board, under the provisions of the Agree- ment, are those set forth in Article X(e), which reads as

follows:

**To seek such information as it may deem neces- sary to the proper operation and administration of this

Agreement; and to publish such information as it may

consider desirable;”

It is apparent that the orderly marketing of coffee will

be greatly facilitated by the prompt and Complete compila- tion of pertinent statistical data relating to coffee and the

[19]

distribution of this information not only to governmental

representatives charged with the administration of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement, but also to all individuals or

concerns engaged in the coffee business. Recognizing this

need, the Board took steps to meet it from the very outset.

At its first meeting the Board debated the advisability of

obtaining prompt and frequent figures on sales registrations in

producing countries, and at its second meeting, held on April

23, 1941, approved a resolution requesting the participating

Governments to submit such statistics promptly each week

(Appendix No. 3). At a subsequent meeting of the Board,

held on July 17, 1941, the need was brought out of estab- lishing a uniform procedure for the submission of such

statistics so as to facilitate their use by the Board, and there

was accordingly approved a standard form to be used by all

countries in submitting statistics on sales registrations and

exports (Appendix No. 9). Gradually the different parti- cipating countries began supplying the Board with statistical

data at regular intervals, and with a view to bringing this

information together in useful form the Board commenced

the publication of a Weekly Statistical Bulletin. The first

issue of this Statistical Bulletin appeared on February 10,

1942, and contained statistics under the following headings:

Basic quotas for the United States market

Revised quotas for the United States market

Sales registrations in producing countries for the

United States market

Exports from producing countries to the United

States market

Imports into the United States from producing

countries participating in the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement, and likewise from non- signatory countries

[20]

Basic quotas for the market outside the United

States

Revised quotas for the market outside the United

States

Sales registrations for the market outside the United

States

Exports to the market outside the United States

Later on additional statistical data of value was included

in the Bulletin, and as of September 30, 1942 there were

included in the Bulletin, in addition to the items listed above,

the following items:

Stocks of green coffee in the United States

Volume of coffee roasted in the United States

Coffee in General Order Warehouse and Foreign

Trade Zone

At the end of the period under review plans were being

made to include likewise the following additional items:

Stocks of green coffee in producing countries

(a) at ports (b) in interior (c) total

Estimated crop production, per quota year, for

each producing country

The statistical service now being offered by the Inter- American Coffee Board is an entirely new service in the

history of the coffee industry. For the first time an ofiEcial

organization is compiling and publishing regularly in one

bulletin official statistics received directly from 15 countries,

covering the major phases of the production, importation and

consumption of coffee. It is the belief of the Inter-American

Coffee Board that this new statistical service will constitute a

notable contribution to the orderly marketing of coffee.

[21]

7. Relations with the United States coffee trade.

From the very beginning the Inter-American Coffee

Board recognized the desirabiUty of maintaining close con- tact with the coffee trade and industry of the United States,

in order to achieve harmonious relationships and avoid, so far

as possible, any basis for controversy. Trade interests are

naturally vitally affected by any broad program of govern- mental control, and the Board has consistently taken the view

that such legitimate interests should be accorded every op- portunity to make their views known, and that everything

possible should be done to administer the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement in such a way as to eliminate, so far as pos- sible, any unnecessary inconvenience or damage to legitimate

trade interests. Provision for meetings for the aforesaid pur- poses with trade interests is contained in Article XVIII of the

Inter-American Coffee Agreement.

The aforesaid procedure was given practical effect at the

second meeting of the Board, held on April 23, 1941, when it

was agreed to invite representatives of the coffee trade to

appear before the. Board to express their views regarding cer- tain problems which had arisen at that time. Pursuant to

this proposal, a committee of three trade representatives ap- peared before the Board at its meeting of May 8, 1941 and

presented a written statement of their views regarding certain

pending problems. There ensued a discussion of the points

at issue, which was followed by the making of arrangements

for a subsequent meeting between the same trade represen- tatives and the Executive Committee of the Board. At the

following meeting of the Board, on May 21, 1941, the Chair- man of the Executive Committee reported on the discussion

held with the trade representatives, and following further

discussions the Board approved certain statements setting

[22]

forth its policy in the matters under discussion (Appendices

Nos. 5 and 6 regarding, respectively, arrivals of coffee in ex- cess of quotas, and diverted shipments).

Later in the year, under date of July 9, 1941, the Presi- dent of the National Coffee Association addressed a telegram

to the Chairman of the Inter-American Coffee Board citing

certain cases in which, it was alleged, the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement was not being properly administered by

the participating countries (Appendix No. 12). This tele- gram was acknowledged by a letter from the Board dated

July 18, 1941, replying in detail to the allegations advanced

by the National Coffee Association, and establishing the

basis for continued cooperation. Since that time relations

between the Inter-American Coffee Board and the National

Coffee Association, as well as other trade groups in the United

States, have been characterized by the utmost cordiality.

Such problems as have arisen have referred rather to indivi- dual cases in .particular countries, rather than involving any

broad criticism of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement as

such, or its administration by the Board.

Concrete evidence of the results of the foregoing policy

is to be found in the support given to the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement and its administration at the Annual

Conventions of the National Coffee Association held in

September 1941 and September 1942. An important con- tribution to the good relationships which have so far existed

between the United States trade and the Inter-American

Coffee Board was the Declaration of Principles approved by

the Board on September 17, 1942 and formally enunciated

before the National Coffee Association at its Annual Con- vention of September 1942 (Appendix No. 37).

[23]

8.Diverted shipments.

One of the most troublesome problems confronted by

the Inter-American Coffee Board during the first months of

its existence was brought about by the difficulty encountered

by producing countries in controlling the ultimate destination

of coffee exports. Under the terms of the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement coffee exports from the participating

producing countries fall into one of two categories: exports

destined for the United States market under the quotas es- tablished by Article I of the Agreement; and exports destined

to the market outside the United States under the quotas

established by Article II of the Agreement. For the smooth

operation of the quota plan it was obviously necessary that

coffee exports destined for the market outside the United

States should not be diverted and imported into the United

States. Any such procedure would naturally have the effect

of creating discrepancies between export and import figures,

disturb existing contracts between exporters and importers,

and in general create disorderly conditions.

The restoration of coffee prices in the United States

market brought about by the conclusion of the Inter-Ameri- can Coffee Agreement provided an apparent incentive to cof- fee traders to purchase coffee in producing countries under

Article II of the Agreement, and then subsequently divert

it to the United States market for entry under the quotas

established by Article I. In this way coffee could be pur- chased cheaply and subsequently sold at the relatively higher

prices in the United States market.

A few cases of diverted shipments of this character,

particularly some which entered the United States from

Canada on the West Coast, were brought to the atten­

[24]

tion of the Inter-American Coffee Board shortly after

its inception. At its meeting of May 15, 1941, this

problem was discussed with representatives of the Na- tional Coffee Association, whose members had already be- come seriously alarmed because of the possible effect of such

diverted shipments on their normal business. On May 15 the

Board issued a public statement condemning this practice,

and stating that it proposed to take effective measures to

put an end to it, in cooperation with the Governments of the

countries participating in the Agreement (Appendix No. 6).

This warning, while clear-cut and vigorous, was not sufficient

in itself to settle the problem once and for all, and it became

apparent that enforcement measures within the producing

countries alone were inadequate to control the situation ef- fectively. Accordingly, at its meeting of August 26, 1941,

the Board approved a resolution requesting the Government

of the United States to limit coffee imports to shipments

covered by an export certificate issued by the producing

country showing that the coffee was destined for the United

States market (Appendix No. 18).

Shortly thereafter, on September 18, 1941, the United

States Government issued an Executive Order giving full

effect to the Board’s recommendation, and since that time

there has been no recurrence of the problem.

9. Minimum prices.

As was anticipated, the successful negotiation of the

Inter-American Coffee Agreement had the effect of bring- ing about a restoration of the price of coffee in the United

States from the ruinous levels of 1939-1940. This firmness

in the market commenced toward the end of 1940, when it

became more and more apparent that the negotiations which

[25]

had been carried on earlier in the year actually gave promise

of reaching concrete and effective results. This price rise

continued steadily untd August of 1941.

It was naturally the desire of all Governments participat- ing in the Inter-American Coffee Agreement that the bene- fits derived from this improvement in the coffee market be

distr^uted widely among producers, and not enjoyed solely

by exporters and importers. With a view to assisting in the

accomplishment of this objective; certain countries adopted

a system of minimum prices within their countries, in order

that all coffee producers might be guaranteed a fair selling

price for their product. Sales for export below such estab- lished prices were to be forbidden.

The development of this system of minimum prices in

some producing countries coincided with the rise in market

prices referred to above, and was considered by many peo- ple as being a contributing factor in the rise. This circum- stance, combined with an acute market situation in the

United States in the middle months of 1941, provoked lengthy

discussions at meetings of the Board during that time, in an

effort to work out a satisfactory procedure which would not

only protect the legitimate interests of producers, but like- wise avoid market disturbances and promote the orderly sale

of coffee. The advantages and disadvantages of the minimum

price system, from the standpoint of international trade,

were discussed at some length, particularly at the meeting of

August 26, 1941. Finally, on October 23, 1941, the Board

approved a statement expressing its policy in regard to this

important matter (Appendix No. 19). This statement pro- vided that, while some producing countries had deemed it

desirable as a measure of internal administration to establish

[26]

minimum prices for the protection of coffee producers, the

Board believed that such minimum prices should not prevent

normal market fluctuations nor disturb the usual and normal

operation of the coffee trade.

10. Maximum prices.

During the period of rising coffee prices experienced dur- ing the initial period of the operation of the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement the United States refrained from estab- lishing maximum prices on green coffee, in the belief that the

problems which gave rise to a discussion of this possibility

might preferably be worked out by the Inter-American

Coffee Board in its administration of the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement. This was accomplished satisfactorily to

all concerned. However, when the attack on Pearl Harbor

on December 7, 1941 involved the United States in a major

war, the situation abruptly changed. The immediate pros- pect of shipping shortages threatened to cause coffee prices

to soar to speculative levels and become an inflationary factor

in the national economy. In these circumstances the United

States Office of Price Administration promptly established

maximum prices on green coffee in the United States, freez- ing such prices as they existed on December 8, 1941. This

new development was naturally of vital interest to the Inter- American Coffee Board, and was discussed at length at its

meeting of December 18, 1941. In the course of that meet- ing a resolution was approved (Appendix No. 22) setting

forth the Board’s interest in the matter and its desire to

establish contact with the responsible authorities of the United

States Government in order to study the new situation.

Pursuant to this resolution representatives of the Board met

with representatives of the Office of Price Administration and

presented the Board’s views to those officials. Following these

[27]

discussions the Office of Price Administration submitted to

the Board a statement commenting on the various aspects of

the matter which had been discussed (Appendix No. 23). A

mutually satisfactory procedure was adopted, whereby dif- ferentials between the various grades and types of green

coffee were established by an impartial committee represent- ing all branches of the coffee trade and industry in the United

States, and on the basis of these differentials a revised price

order was issued on December 27, 1941, which took into ac- count the interests of producing countries. Simultaneously

with the announcement of the revised price schedule on

green coffee the Board issued a statement, likewise dated

December 27, 1941, expressing its belief that the revised

price schedule established a sound basis for trading in coffee

under existing conditions.

It is important to note that the maximum prices estab- lished by the Office of Price Administration in no sense rep- resented official judgment as to the relative qualities and

values of different types of coffee. The price schedule mere- ly froze existing prices, on a basis of price differentials recog- nized and accepted by the coffee trade.

11. Export certificates.

Closely related to the problem of diverted shipments,

discussed above under section 8 of this Report, is the pro- cedure whereby each producing country issues export certi- ficates covering each shipment of coffee. This procedure is

required by Article VI of the Inter-American Coffee Agree- ment, which reads as follows:

**Each producing country participating in this Agree- ment shall take all measures necessary on its part for the

[28]

execution and operation of this Agreement and shall issue

for each coffee shipment an official document certifying

that the shipment is within the corresponding quota fixed

in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.”

The importance of this required procedure was brought

to the attention of the Board at its meeting with representa- tives of the National Coffee Association ^ held on May 8,

1941, in the course of which its relationship to the problem of

diverted shipments was fully discussed. There ensued during

the following meetings of the Board a discussion as to the

proper form for such a certificate, and finally, on July 17,

1941, a standard form of export certificate was approved by

the Board (Appendix No. 14).

While the procedure for the issue of export certificates

was thereby clearly established, certain difficulties arose in the

administration of the quotas due to the fact that in a few

cases export certificates were issued in an amount in excess

of the corresponding quota. This circumstance naturally oc- casioned confusion and inconvenience to exporters and im- porters, and the Board received complaints in regard to the

matter. With a view to clarifying the Board’s position and

policy in the matter a formal statement was approved on

August 5, 1942 regarding the obligations imposed by Article

VI of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement and the im- portance of exercising care in the issue of export certificates

(Appendix No. 35). The Board believes that with the ex- perience so far gained administrative control will be per- fected and the problem disappear. This is important not

only with respect to shipments to the United States market,

but likewise with regard to shipments to the market outside

the United States, in order to achieve effective control of the

quotas established by Article II of the Inter-American Coffee

Agreement.

12. Unfilled quotas.

The third paragraph of Article IV of the Inter-American

Coffee Agreement reads as follows:

"If any producing country participating in this

Agreement has exported in any quota year less than its

quota for the United States market, the Board may increase

that country’s quota for the immediately following

quota year by an amount equal to the deficiency for the

preceding quota year, up to the limit of 10 percent of the

quota for such previous year.”

Under the authority conferred by the aforesaid section

of Article IV, the Board approved a resolution on July 1,

1941 authorizing those countries which might fail to fill

their quotas for the current quota year to add to their respec- tive quotas for the following year the amount of the defi- ciency up to the limit of 10% of their quotas for the

preceding year. (Apendix No. 11.) The effect of this

resolution was that the quotas for certain countries during

the 1941-42 quota year were greater than they otherwise

would have been, due to the fact that those same countries

had not exported the full amount of their quotas during the

1940-41 quota year.

A proposal in the same sense was submitted to the Board

at its meeting of September 17, 1942, with a view to having

similar action taken once more. This time, however, con- ditions were materially different due to the unforeseen ship- ping difficulties encountered by some producing countries and

[30]

the relatively favorable shipping facilities enjoyed by others.

No decision was reached at the meeting of September 17 be- cause of the different conditions prevailing and the opposi- tion to such a measure which was manifested in the course of

the meeting. At the same time, it was agreed that if any

action were to be taken by the Board it should be taken dur- ing the course of the current quota year, in order that there

should be no uncertainty during the coming quota year as

to the actual amounts of the quotas which the different coun- tries would enjoy. Accordingly, a meeting of the Board was

called on September 29, 1942, the day before the end of the

quota year, to consider the matter again and reach a final con- clusion. Notwithstanding the abnormal shipping conditions

then prevailing, the Board approved a resolution on that

date identical to the one approved on July 1, 1941 for the

previous quota year (Apendix No. 38).

In its discussion of this problem, and the exercise by the

Board of the authority contained in the aforesaid section of

Article IV, it should be recorded that the general attitude of

the Delegates was to the effect that in normal times that

provision of the Agreement should be applied by affirmative

resolution of the Board, to compensate producing countries

for any quota deficiencies due to unfavorable weather condi- tions, bad crops, and similar natural phenomena. At the

same time, the Board did not feel that this authority should

be exercised in an automatic way every year, and felt that if

abnormal shipping conditions were to continue during the

coming quota year it would perhaps be more equitable to all

countries to refrain from taking such action, so as to avoid

too great a distortion of the normal participation of each

country in the United States market.

[31]

13. Samples,

In July 1941 the Inter-American Coffee Board received

complaints from the trade regarding the difficulties encoun- tered by exporters and importers in entering samples of cof- fee into the United States in cases where the quota corres- ponding to the particular growth of coffee had been closed.

After some discussion of the matter the Board reached the

conclusion that the operation of the quota system was not

intended to interfere with normal trade practices, such as the

entry of samples, and that accordingly bona fide samples for

commercial purposes should be permitted entry even in cases

where the corresponding quota had been j&lled. The posi- tion taken by the Inter-American Coffee Board in this mat- ter was summarized in its statement of July 24, 1941 (Ap- pendix No. 15). Shortly thereafter the United States Gov- ernment issued an Executive Order providing for the entry

of samples in line with the Board’s recommendation.

14. Market outside the United States.

Article II of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement

establishes basic annual quotas for the exportation of coffee to

the market outside the United States. The second para- graph of Article III grants the Inter-American Coffee Board

authority to increase or decrease the export quotas for the

market outside the United States to the extent that the Board

deems necessary to adjust supplies to estimated requirements.

During the first two quota years the Board has taken

no action in adjusting the quotas established under Article II

for the market outside the United States. Due to war con- ditions coffee exports to Europe were drastically curtailed,

although a small volume of business was possible with cer-

[32]

tain neutral countries in Europe in addition to exports to

Canada and southern South America. Because of the rela- tive unimportance of the market outside the United States

during this period the Board took no action with regard to

the quotas for that market, which accordingly had no effect

on exportations.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, certain problems which

arose during the period under review led the Board to consider

the possibility of taking action under Articles II and III on

various occasions. The main reason for the Board giving con- sideration to this matter was the fact that coffee prices within

the United States increased more rapidly under the opera- tion of the Agreement than prices in the market outside the

United States, thereby establishing a price differential be- tween the two markets. The Board considered this to be an

undesirable situation, from the standpoint of the producing

countries as well as that of the United States. As early as

the first meeting of the Inter-American Coffee Board specific

proposals for dealing with this problem were advanced by one

of the Delegates.

At subsequent meetings the possibility of taking action

imder Articles II and III was discussed further and on Septem- ber 3, 1941 the Board gave its consideration to a draft resolu- tion providing for an adjustment of the quotas for the market

outside the United States. This problem continued to engage

the attention of the Board from time to time, and was debated

at some length at the Board’s meeting of March 5, 1942.

However, as indicated above, no action was taken.

As will be seen from the foregoing resume, the problem

of adjusting the quotas for the market outside the United

States did not assume great importance during the first two

[33]

quota years, due primarily to war conditions. Nevertheless,

with the restoration of more normal conditions in the world

coffee trade it is possible that the powers and duties corre- sponding to the Board under Articles II and III of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement may assume much greater im- portance. The many discussions which the Board has already

had on this problem have been useful in preparing the Board

for adequate consideration in the future of this important

factor in world coffee marketing conditions.

15. Nomignatory countries.

An essential feature of the Inter-American Coffee Agree- ment is the undertaking on the part of the United States

Government to limit the importation of coffee from countries

not participating in the Inter-American Coffee Agreement

to the basic annual quota established in Article VII of the

Agreement. This quota is automatically increased or de- creased by the same proportion and at the same time as the

global quota of the participating countries for the United

States market.

The amount of the basic annual quota for non-signatory

countries (355,000 bags of 60 kilograms) has been the sub- ject of representations made to the United States Govern- ment by the Governments of Great Britain, the Nether- lands and Belgium, on the ground that it is smaller than

justified (see minutes of meeting No. 19, November 12,

1941). While it is impossible during the continuation in

force of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement to effect any

change in this quota, other than following the procedure for

modification established by Article XXIV of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement, it is probable that this question

will arise again when more normal conditions are restored

[34]

in the world coffee market and in conjunction with the ques- tion of further renewal of the Inter-American Coffee Agree- ment. In considering this possibility the Board has likewise

given some thought to the possibility of expanding the scope

of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement to include other

important producing and consuming areas, in the thought

that perhaps greater participation in the European market

might result from such negotiations. Due to the dislocations

caused by war conditions this possibility has not been fully

explored by the Board, but it is to be anticipated that during

the post-war period it will be the subject of serious debate.

In its administration of the nonsignatory quota the

United States allocated that quota during the second quota

year among the major producing areas: British Empire ex- cept Aden and Canada; Kingdom of the Netherlands and its

possessions; Aden, Yemen and Saudi Arabia; and other non- signatory countries. Due to the change of conditions brought

about by the war and the need for added flexibility it was

decided to discontinue this allocation among non-signatory

producing areas for the third quota year.

16. Shipping facilities.

The Inter-American Coffee Board has at all times been

vitally concerned with the maintenance of adequate shipping

facilities for the movement of coffee to the United States

market, and has endeavored to shape its policy in such a way

as to derive maximum advantages from available shipping

facilities. Early in 1941 the importance of this problem was

officially recognized by the Board when it approved its first

resolution authorizing advance shipments (see Section 5).

The first clause in that resolution referred to **an emergency

situation... due to the possible scarcity of means of transpor­

[35]

tation to the United States in the future, which might lead to

an imminent shortage of coffee in the market of the United

States” (Appendix No. 8).

In a resolution approved by the Board on July 24, 1941

attention was called to the vital importance of coffee in inter- American trade and the national economies of the producing

countries, and the United States Government was urged to

exert every effort to provide shipping facilities for the move- ment of coffee to the United States. On October 23, 1941

the Board again authorized advance shipments in order to take

advantage of all available shipping facilities, and later, on

April 29, 1942, approved a resolution removing any restric- tion on such advance shipments (Appendix No. 30).

In addition to the aforesaid authorization of advance

shipments the Board has likewise adjusted the quotas for the

United States market in such a way as to remove any obstacle

which might otherwise be imposed on the shipment of coffee

to the United States. It was essentially the shipping problem

which motivated the Board’s resolution of July 15, 1942,

authorizing an emergency increase of the quotas for the

United States market (Appendix No. 33). The effect of

this resolution was to enable those countries enjoying shipping

facilities to take full advantage of them, so as to ship to the

United States for immediate consumption as much coffee

as possible.

With a view to exploring all possibilities for improving

the means of maritime transportation between coffee-produc- ing countries and the United States the Chairman of the

Board requested the Delegates, on March 9, 1942, to investi- gate conditions in their respective countries with a view to

making available sailing vessels or other small craft which

[36]

might be used advantageously in the coffee trade. The same

possibility was considered later by the Delegates on July 22,

1942, and in several countries action was initiated looking to- ward the full utilization of small boats as a means of supple- menting the normal services for coffee shipments which by

that time had been seriously curtailed.

In line with its policy of taking full advantage of all

available shipping space, the Board undertook to urge the

removal of the usual restrictions imposed by the shipping

conferences on the shipment of coffee in non-conference

vessels. Under date of March 12, 1942 a letter was ad- dressed to the United States War Shipping Administration

calling attention to this problem, and favorable action in the

matter was promptly taken by the War Shipping Adminis- tration, as indicated in its reply of March 21, 1942 (Ap- pendices Nos. 27 and 28).

At the end of the period under review maritime trans- portation between the coffee-producing countries and the

United States had been seriously affected by war conditions,

both through the loss of tonnage as the result of submarine

activity and the diversion of ships to services more directly

related to the war effort. The foregoing brief summary

of the Board’s activities in relation to the shipping problem

will indicate that every effort was made to achieve the

maximum flexibility in its administration of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement so as to take full advantage of

all available tonnage.

17.Wartime regulations in the United States,

The entry of the United States into the war against the

Axis Powers brought about a series of events having profound

[37]

effects on the marketing of coffee, and greatly complicating

the task of the Inter-American Coffee Board in its adminis- tration of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement.

For the purposes of the present Report it is unnecessary

and impracticable to go into detail regarding the many laws,

regulations and administrative procedures adopted by the

United States in order to adjust its import trade to the new

requirements of wartime conditions. However, a resume of

the more important of these regulations as they affected the

importation of coffee, with reference to the action taken

by the Board in an effort to avoid unnecessary difficulties and

to harmonize all elements in the situation, cannot properly be

excluded from this Report.

Immediately after Pearl Harbor the Office of Price

Administration of the United States found it necessary to

establish maximum prices on coffee in or^er to terminate the

inflationary tendency which had already manifested itself, by

freezing prices at their December 8 levels.

This development and the action taken by the Board

in an attempt to reconcile all interests concerned, are de- scribed in more detail in another section of this Report (Sec- tion 10—^Maximum Prices).

The next important step taken by the United States

Government as a war measure relating to coffee was the is- suance by the War Production Board of Order M-135 on

April 28, 1942, restricting deliveries of roasted coffee by

roasters to 75% of their last year’s volume of business. This

action by the War Production Board was reported to the

Inter-American Coffee Board by the United States Delegate

at the Board’s meeting of April 29, 1942. It was pointed out

[38]

that the sole reason for this Order was to facilitate the equit- able distribution of coffee within the United States market,

and that the action taken by the War Production Board was

due solely to the falling off of shipping facilities for the im- portation of coffee and the corresponding need of spreading

available supplies equitably among all roasting establishments

throughout the United States. Information regarding the

Order was furnished to the Delegates through the Secretariat,

as a matter which all producing countries could not avoid

following with the greatest interest. Later on, due to the

continued difficulties of maritime transportation, the 75%

restriction referred to above was reduced to 65% on Septem- ber 1, 1942. This further action by the War Production

Board created concern both in the United States and among

the Delegates to the Board lest the consequent scarcity of

roasted coffee reaching consumers might lead later on to con- sumer rationing.

More important from the standpoint of the coffee-pro- ducing countries was another Order of the War Production

Board, General Imports Order M-63, issued on June 2, 1942.

The effect of this Order on coffee was simply that it sub- jected all new coffee import business to licensing by the War

Production Board, the purpose being to control the imports

not only of coffee but of several hundred other commodities

in such a way as to derive the maximum advantage from

available shipping space. There followed during the months

of July, August and September a period of readjustment to

this new development, during which efforts were made to im- prove administrative handling of the Order and to minimize

unnecessary inconvenience to the coffee trade, both producers

and importers. During this period the Board was very active

in bringing to the attention of the competent authorities of

[39]

the United States Government difficulties encountered by

producing countries in adjusting their handling of exports to

the new administrative requirements. In obtaining favorable

consideration of the many problems which necessarily arose,

and in bringing about a better mutual comprehension of the

respective problems as between producers, shippers, importers

and the responsible Governmental agencies, the Secretary- Manager of the Board rendered a valuable service to all the

Delegates. The position of the Board throughout this period

can be summarized very briefly by stating that it felt that

all available shipping space for coffee should be fully utilized,

consistent with the requirements of the war, and that admin- istrative procedures should be flexible enough to avoid any

loss of space for purely administrative reasons. Continuous

contact with the War Production Board made this view fully

known to that agency, and the Board’s interest in this im- portant matter no doubt contributed greatly in minimiz- ing such difficulties as did arise. By the end of the period

under review the coffee trade was becoming adjusted to the

new requirements, administrative procedures were falling

into a pattern, and the Board had reason to believe that its

legitimate interest in the proper administration of Order

M-63 was being given serious attention by the competent

officials. It is perhaps unnecessary to point out that the

mechanism provided by the Inter-American Coffee Board for

the joint formulation of the views of producing countries and

their official and effective presentation to the competent

authorities of the United States Government has been of

tremendous advantage to all the countries participating in the

Inter-American Coffee Agreement in facilitating prompt and

effective handling of their mutual problems.

[40]

18.Renewal of Inter-American Coffee Agreement.

Article XXIV of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement

provides that it shall remain in force until October 1, 1943,

subject to certain contingencies, and that prior to October 1,

1942 ”the Board shall make recommendations to the parti- cipating Governments as to the continuation or otherwise of

the Agreement”.

In anticipation of the discussions which the Board would

have to undertake in the formulation of its recommenda- tions, the Chairman called attention to the Board’s responsi- bilities in this respect at the meeting of January 6, 1942. On

April 29,1942 the Board approved a resolution requesting the

participating Governments to transmit to the Board through

their respective Delegates information regarding the need or

otherwise of resubmitting the Inter-American Coffee Agree- ment to their respective legislative bodies for ratification in

the event that the Agreement were to be continued (Appen- dix No. 31).

At the meeting of the Board held on July 7, 1942 there

commenced formal and detailed discussions regarding all

questions involved in a possible continuation of the Inter- American Coffee Agreement. During six subsequent meet- ings of the Board the matter was carefully studied, and all the

Delegates expressed their respective points of view regarding

this important subject. These discussions culminated in the

formulation of a resolution approved by the Board on Sep- tember 2, 1942 recommending the continuation without

change of the Inter-American Coffee Agreement for a period

of one year from October 1, 1943 (Appendix No. 36). A

copy of this resolution was transmitted formally by the

Chairman of the Board to each of the Governments partici­

[41]

pating in the Inter-American Coffee Agreement, expressing

the Board’s desire to receive a reply at as early a date as con- venient. During the coming quota year, 1942-43, the Board

will receive replies from the various participating Govern- ments and decide on further action to take in regard to the

possible renewal of the Agreement, piursuant to the provisions

of Article XXIV.

[42]

III. SUMMARY OF MINUTES

For convenient reference in following the course of the

discussions of the Inter-American Coffee Board during the

period covered by this Report, there is given below, in sum- mary form, chronologically, a list of the 38 meetings held by

the Board during this period, with a list of the major subjects

dealt with at each meeting.

Meeting No, ^

Date S,vh]ects Discussed

1

April 17, 1942 Election of Officers

Permanent employees of the Coffee

Board

Declaration of Policy Regarding

Prices and Consumption

Modification of quotas under Article

III

Guatemelan quota

Advance shipments on next year’s

quota

Conversion factors

Minutes of meetings of the Board

Relations with Pan American Coffee

Bureau

Registrations of sales in producing

countries

Coffee sales to markets other than

the United States

II

April 23, 1941 Personnel

Budget

[43]