
r
The Grand Strategy of Philip II
The Grand Strategy of
Philip II
Geoffrey Parker
Yale University'Press
New Haven and London
Copyright © 1998 by Geoffrey Parker
All rights reserved. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part, in any form
(beyond that copying permitted by Sections 107 and 108 of the U.S. Copyright Law and
except by reviewers for the public press) without written permission from the publishers.
Set in Garamond by Best-set Typesetter Ltd, Hong Kong
Printed in Great Britain by Redwood Books, Wiltshire
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Parker, Geoffrey, 1943-
The Grand Strategy of Philip II/Geoffrey Parker.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-300-07540-5
I. Spain - History - Philip II, 1556-1598. 2. Philip II, King of
Spain, 1527-1598. 3. Spain - Strategic aspects. I. Title.
DP179.P39 1998
964'.043'092 - dc2i
98-07352 CIP
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.
2468 10 97531
D P
179
P39
1998
For Susie, Ed, Richard and Jamie Parker MAIN
Contents
List of Illustrations ix
Acknowledgements xi
Note on Conventions xiii
Preface xv
Chronology xxi
Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand Strategy? i
Part i: The Context of Strategic Culture u
‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 13
Distance: Public Enemy Number i? 47
'With God on Our Side' 77
Part ii: The Formation of Grand Strategy m
‘The Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1333-77 115
The ‘British Problem’, 1338-83 147
The ‘Enterprise of England’, 1383-88 179
Part hi; The Execution of Grand Strategy 205
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe? 209
Was Parma Ready? 229
The Guns of August 251
After the Armada 269
Conclusion: Agent and Structure 281
Notes 297
Note on Sources 397
Bibliography 407
Index 435
vii
Illustrations
Plates
1 Map of Philip IPs empire ^
2 NON SUFFICIT ORBis (medal from 1583, commemorating Philip’s union of the
Spanish and Portuguese empires: Museu Numismatico Portugues, Lisbon,
Inv. 2918) ^
3 Non sufficit orbis’ (drawing of the design found in the palace of the governor
of Santo Domingo by Sir Francis Drake and his men in 1586, from W. Bigges,
A summarie and true discourse of Sir Francis Drake’s West Indian Voyage (London,
1589; courtesy of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University) 5
4 Philip II, by Alonso Sanchez Coello, 1587 (Florence: Galleria Palatina,
Pitti Palace)
5 Philip II listens to Leonardo Dona at an audience, by Marco Vercellio (Venice:
Pinacoteca del Palazzo Dona dalle Rose)
6 The Royal Palace, Madrid, c. 1569, by Anton van den Wyngaerde (Vienna,
Osterreichisches Nationalbibliothek, Cod. Min. 41/73) 18
7 A billete’(Archivo General de Simancas, 431/16) 24
8 Philip II corrects his paperwork (British Library, Additional Ms 28,357/136) 34
9 Philip II gives up trying to correct the ‘Proclamation on etiquette’
(British Library, Additional Ms 28,361/110) 35
10 A ‘view’ of Barcelona, 1563, by Anton van den Wyngaerde (Vienna,
Osterreichisches Nationalbibliothek, Cod. Min. 41/12) 60
11 The Escorial Atlas: map of the whole peninsula (Monasterio de San Lorenzo de
El Escorial, Ms K.I.i/i)
12 Juan Lopez de Velasco’s map of the Pacific (courtesy of the John Carter
Brown Library at Brown University, Cod. Span. 7) 62
13 Disk recording the lunar eclipse of 17 November 1584 (Archivo General de
Indias, Seville, Mapas y pianos, Mexico 34) 52
14 Map of Ixcatlan in Mexico prepared in response to Lopez de Velasco’s
questionnaire (University of Texas at Austin: Nettie Lee Benson Latin
American Collection, JGI XXIV-7) 64
15 Map of Muchitlan in Mexico prepared in response to Lopez de Velasco’s
questionnaire (University of Texas at Austin: Nettie Lee Benson Latin
American Collection, JGI XXV-i 3)
16 Frontispiece to Luis Cabrera de Cordoba, Historia de Felipe II, rey de Espaiia
(courtesy of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University) 94
IX
X Illustrations
17 Frontispiece to Fray Caspar <de San Agustin, conquista de las Islas Pilipinas
(courtesy of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University) 94
18 Frontispiece of Jose de Rivera Bernardez, Descripcion breve de . . . Zacatecas
(courtesy of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University) 95
19 Frontispiece of the ‘Atlas’ presented by Charles V to Philip II in 1543
(courtesy of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University) 100
20 Map of the 1572 campaign 128
21 The execution of the Haarlem garrison (from Walter Morgan s account:
Oxford, All Souls’ College Ms i29/27v-28r: courtesy of the Warden and
Fellows of All Souls’College) i33
22 The Great Seal of Francis II and Mary Stuart, soveteigns of France, Scotland,
England and Ireland (Geoffrey Parker) 150
23 The ‘Terceira Bowl’ (Colin Martin) 168
24 Three proven invasion strategies against England 183
25 Bernardino de Escalante’s map of how to invade England (Biblioteca Nacional,
Madrid, Mr 5785/168) ^^87
26 A ‘Relacion de sabado’, 1589, annotated by Philip II (Archivo General de
Simancas, Consejos y Juntas de Hacienda, 219) I99
27 Plan for the invasion of England drawn up by the marquis of Santa Cruz, 22
March 1586, and sent to London (Public Record Office State Papets 94/2/124) 210
28 Battle-plan of the Spanish Armada, sent to the grand duke of Florence on 25
March 1588 (Archivio di Stato, Florence, Mediceo del Principato, 4919/340) 211
29 The ‘Rainbow portrait’ of Queen Elizabeth I (Hatfield House, courtesy of the
marquess of Salisbury) 224
30 Sketch of Spanish troops crowded aboard barges crossing a river (1605)
(Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid, Ms Res 210/272) 240
31 Map from 1590 of the rivers and canals in West Flanders (Hatfield House
CPM 11/46, courtesy of the marquess of Salisbury) 242
32 View of the entrance to some Flanders harbour in 1586 (Biblioteca Nacional,
Madrid, Ms Res 237/17) 246
33 Philip II in his ‘wheelchair’ and ‘Babygro suit’, from Jehan Thermite’s
Passetemps (Bibliotheque royale, Brussels, Ms II. 1028/157) 278
Tables
1 The councils of Philip II 22
2 News arriving at Venice between 1497 and 1522 53
3a The family of Charles V 79
3b The family of Philip II 79
4 The cost of war on two fronts 1571—77 ^35
5 The military strength of Philip II and his enemies, 1587—88 202
6 The invasion force for England, 1588 236
7 The fatal inheritance 294
Figures
1 Philip IPs wars ^
2 Communications between Philip II and Mexico in 1583 5^
3 English capital ships, 1573—92 254
4 Shot and powder expended by Royal Navy ships on the Cadiz and Caribbean
raids, 1595-96 25^
5 Shot expended by ships of the Spanish Armada, 1588 259
Acknowledgements
Thirty years ago Helli Koenigsberger alerted me to the need to determine
whether or not Philip II possessed a Grand Strategy, suggesting the sort of
questions that one should ask and some of the evidence that one might find. I did
not begin to give serious thought to the issue until 1987, however, in response to
two invitations. First Williamson Murray asked me to contribute a chapter to a
volume he proposed to edit on ‘The making of strategy’: my assignment would be
Habsburg Spain. Later that year, following the publication of Paul Kennedy’s Rise
and fall of the great powers, Don Higginbotham asked me to critique Chapter 2,
entitled ‘The Habsburg bid for mastery’, as part of his symposium on that
important volume. I cannot believe that my name would have occurred to either
Murray or Higginbotham without a recommendation from John Lynn, my colleague
at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (where I had just begun
to teach). My first debt of gratitude, therefore, is to all these historians who
encouraged me to examine whether Philip II did indeed have a Grand Strategy,
and helped me to find ways of rediscovering it.
Preliminary versions of four chapters in this book have appeared elsewhere:
Chapter 4 in E. Ladewig Petersen, K. J. V. Jespersen and H. Stevensborg, eds.
Clashes of culture. Essays in honor of Niels Steensgaard (Odense, 1992); Chapter 7 in
K. Nielson and B. J. C. McKercher, eds. Go spy the land (New York, 1992);
Chapter 8 in H. Soly and R. Vermeir, eds, Beleid en hestuur in de oude Nederlanden.
Liber Amicorum Prof Dr Michel Baelde (Ghent, 1993); and Chapter 9 in The
Mariner’s Mirror, LXXXII (1996). My thanks go to the editors and publishers who
allowed me to reproduce here some of the work they commissioned.
I would also like to thank those who have shared their special insights with me.
Apart from the assistance acknowledged in each chapter, I must single out the
contributions of four scholars who made me aware of important aspects of the
subject which I might otherwise have ignored. Clara Garcia-Ayluardo and Nancy
van Deusen did their best to keep Philip’s American possessions in the picture;
Mario Rizzo enlightened me about Spanish Italy; and Fernando Bouza shared with
me his unrivalled knowledge of the intricacies and intimacies of Philip’s life and
reign.
XI
xii Acknowledgements
This book was conceived, researched and written after multiple sclerosis transformed
my life in 1987. While I hope that my health problems have not affected
the quality of the end-product, they certainly complicated the process of preparation.
That I managed to finish is due in large part to the kindness and sensitivity
of a host of librarians and archivists who did everything they could to facilitate
access to their collections; to the generous research support from the three United
States universities at which I have taught over the last decade; and to the energy
of the research assistants (financed by those same universities) who helped me to
prepare the data - Jeffrey McKeage, Mary Sprunger and Edward Tenace at
Illinois; Paul Allen, Paul Dover, Martha Hoffman-Strock and Michael Levin at
Yale; and Charles Sharpe at Ohio State. I thank them all, and also Bethany Aram,
Cristina Borreguero Beltran, Richard Kagan and Catherine Lawrence, who
secured various materials for me at short notice, and Paul Hibbeln for help with
compiling the index.
Finally I am most grateful to those who critiqued my typescript and gave me
valuable comments and suggestions: Paul Allen, Tom Arnold, Mark Choate, Eliot
Cohen, Jo Guilmartin, Michael Levin, Phil Tetlock and Nancy van Deusen read
the first part; Robert Baldock, Jeremy Black, Fernando Bouza, Robert Cowley,
Derek Croxton, Antonio Eeros, Fernando Gonzalez de Leon, Helli Koenigsberger,
Ned Lebow, Peter Pierson, Maria Jose Rodriguez-Salgado and Matthew Waxman
read it all. I have recorded additional scholarly debts in the notes to each chapter.
This book is dedicated to my four children — Susie, Ed, Richard and Jamie — in
gratitude for the love and happiness that they have brought into my life.
Note on Conventions
Where an established English version of a foreign place-name exists (Corunna,
The Hague, Brussels, Venice, Vienna) I have used it, otherwise I have preferred
the style used in the place itself today. Likewise, with personal names, I have
adopted standard English versions (William of Orange, Don John of Austria and,
of course, Philip II), but otherwise used the style and title used by the person
concerned.
To avoid confusion and facilitate comparisons, all sums of money mentioned in
this book have been given in Spanish ducats, each one roughly equivalent in the
later sixteenth century to one escudo (or crown) and to two florins. About four
ducats made up one pound sterling.
On 24 February 1581 Pope Gregory XIII ordered that the calendar should be
advanced by ten days. Different countries adopted the ‘new style’ at different
times, however: Spain on 4/15 October 1582, most (but not all) of the provinces
of the Netherlands in rebellion against Philip II on 14/25 December 1582, the
‘loyal’ provinces on 11/22 February 1583, and so on. All dates in this book are
given in New Style from October 1582 unless otherwise stated, and throughout
I have assumed that each calendar year began on i January (and not on 25 March,
as in the Julian-Old Style-Calendar).
xm
Preface
Philip II began to exercise power in 1543, at the age of sixteen, when his father
Charles V appointed him regent of Spain. In 1554 he became king of Naples and
1556 he succeeded to his father’s dominions in America and most of Europe, and
death in 1598 Philip ruled the first global empire in history — yet no one has so
his policies, what practices and prejudices influenced his decision-making, what
external factors affected the achievement of his goals.
written by or to the king have survived, creating a daunting mountain of data.
Just as Philip proved unable to absorb in full all the relevant information concerning
the multiple states of his Monarchy and the problems that faced them, so no
relevant material available for all areas over the entire reign. Nor would one
necessarily be much the wiser for doing so, first because so many important papers
have been lost, and second because so many important matters concerning the
formation of policy can never be known. In the words of President John F.
Kennedy, ‘The essence of ultimate decision remains impenetrable to the observer
- often indeed to the decider himself. . . There will always be dark and tangled
stretches in the decision-making process - mysterious even to those who may be
most intimately involved.’^
This book therefore approaches Philip IPs Grand Strategy via a series of
soundings. |Part J^roceeds horizontally (as it were), examining the general context
of Spain’s.strategic culture: the king’s distinctive system of government; the
‘information overload’ that threatened to engulf it; and the various strategic
priorities and assumptions deployed to overcome the disparity between aims and |
means. Here the data come from all periods and from all major theatres of
operations. It is impossible, however, to examine either the actual formation or
the execution of Philip’s Grand Strategy on the same scale — not just because of the
loss of documents and the ‘mysterious’ nature of the decision-making process, but
of England and the following year Charles made him ruler of the Netherlands. In
in 1580 he acquired Portugal and its overseas possessions. From then until his
far attempted to study precisely how he did so: what strategic priorities underlay
Good reasons explain this neglect. Above all, hundreds of thousands of papers
individual historian could possibly find the time to read and review all the
XV
XVI Preface
W
AA
also because a proper consideration of the king’s policies requires an examination
of the strategies and aims of his allies and his enemies as well. As historians of the
Cold War have clearly shown, a ‘symmetrical’ study based on the records of all the
participants, one that can measure the perceptions (and misperceptions) of each
state about the others against ‘reality’, is the only viable methodology for international
relations.^ The rest of the soundings in this book therefore proceed
‘vertically’, dealing in de,tail only with those areas in which a symmetrical
approach can be applied.^art II examines the surviving documentation - from the
Habsburgs, their allies and their adversaries - for the formation of strategy in just
three case-studies: Philip’s unsuccessful efforts to maintain his authqrityiitijhe
Netherlands between 1555 and 13,77 (Chapter 4); his defective peacetime rnanagerriehToFforeign
relations with Scotland and EnglandJbetween 1558 and 1585
(Chapter 5)y and the mobilization of diplomatic, economic, military and naval
resources for his^boxtiye attempt to conquer England between 1585 and 1588
(Chapter 6). Tart III jeXamines three aspects of the execution of Grand Strategy
(with special' reference to those chosen areas) in which it appears that fatal flaws
dobnied the king’s policies to defeat: his inabiLiryimprevenLt.iareign intelligence
services from penetrating his designs (Chapter 7); his failure to coordinate logistics
and communications at the operational level (Chapter 8); and, finally, his imperfect
appreciation of changing technology and tactics in war (Chapter 9). Chapter
10 considers the lessons drawn by the king and his ministers from the Armada’s
failure, and the (^bhclusion~ discusses whether the outcome might have beem
"different with other policy options, another ruler^or a different strategic culture/
'i'he choice^bfthese particular case-studies reflects both the pattern of documentary
survival and the linguistic limitations of the author. To begin with, the loss
of a ship carrying Philip’s personal papers from the Netherlands to Spain in 1559
makes it virtually impossible to recreate his Grand Strategy before that date. By
contrast the king’s decision to make Mateo Vazquez his private secretary in 1573
introduced an administrator whose tidy habits - especially his custom of dating
virtually every piece of paper that came across his desk — make it possible to
recreate on a daily and sometimes hourly basis the evolution of royal policy. Tens
of thousands of royal ‘billetes’ (memoranda) survive in reasonable order until
Vazquez’s death in 1591. Equally important, Philip came to confide his innermost
hopes, fears and frustrations to Vazquez (who was also his chaplain), and so their
correspondence often reveals the king’s aims and motives as well as the process by
which he reached his decisions. The need for((sym^t^fiii considering Habsburg
policy means, however, that I have been able toTBe'bnly certain parts of this rich
harvest: above all, Philip’s Mediterranean strategy remains largely outside the
compass of this volume because the records of his adversaries - the Ottoman
sultan and his North African vassals - are written in languages that few today can
read. Another account of Spain’s Mediterranean strategy based exclusively on
western sources makes no sense; a proper study of the subject must await a scholar
with the appropriate repertory of linguistic and palaeographic skills.^ In contrast,
however, the public and private archives of two of Philip’s other principal adverf
Preface XVI1
1*^
saries, England and the Dutch Republic, are as plentiful as those of any sixteenthcentury
state (and, in the case of England, far better catalogued). They not only
reveal the serious misperceptions entertained by Philip and his advisers about
their enemies, but also show that strategic decision-making in both countries
suffered from many of the same problems. Furthermore, Philip’s Grand Strategy
met its nemesis at the hands of these two states. In the Mediterranean, as in the
Americas, the king achieved most of his policy goals; in the Netherlands and
against England he did not, thus beginning the decline of Spain as a great power.
It is important to understand the reasons for that failure.
Methodologically, this volume combines three types of evidence. First the king’s
holograph policy statements, which survive in abundance for the 1570s and
1580s, have been cited extensively. They are complemented by the records of the
various government institutions and, where they survive, of the leading ministers
(for the private archives assembled by the dukes of Alba and Medina Sidonia or by
Cardinal Granvelle, among others, contain many papers that would today be kept
in a state repository). Second, the dispatches of the dozen or so resident ambassadors
at the court of Spain have been examined. Although excessive reliance on the
views of foreign diplomats has sometimes led historians into error, when rigorously
compared with the actions and internal records of policy debates by the
government under scrutiny, ambassadorial reports (as Leopold von Ranke demonstrated
over a century ago) constitute a source of fundamental importance for the
study of political history during the early modern era.^ Finally, considerable use
has been made of comparative material from other centuries. In order to evaluate
the performance of Philip as the chief executive officer of a complex ‘multinational’
enterprise, parallels from three areas have been included. First, modern
strategic studies have been exploited, on the assumption that many of the challenges
facing global empires in the twentieth century probably resembled those
that faced their sixteenth-century precursors. Thus Philip’s decision in 1574 not
to end the Dutch revolt by opening the sea-dikes and flooding the rebellious
provinces is contrasted with the strikingly similar reluctance of President Lyndon
Johnson almost four hundred years later not to destroy the Red River dike system
of Vietnam in order to flood areas inhabited by opponents of US policy (p. 137
below). Next, current business management theory has been examined on the
similar grounds that the CEOs of ‘global enterprises’ across the centuries also
probably handled many similar problems and did so in similar ways. The work of
analysts like Peter F. Drucker on what makes an ‘effective executive’ has been
cited in order to show that some (although not all) of Philip’s management
techniques meet modern criteria. Some things, indeed, never change: ‘People are
time-consumers and most people are time-wasters’ is one of Drucker’s epigrams
that Philip would have heartily endorsed — hence his much-criticized insistence
on avoiding meetings (see p. 21 below). Finally, the conduct of other absolute
rulers in other centuries has been used in order to assess the nature of Philip’s
problems and responses. All too often the king (like other leaders) has been judged
xviii Preface
by those with no experience of wielding power. It may be true that some of the
king’s administrative habits - such as creating separate, often competing, organs
to deal with similar problems, or insisting that his information come from many
separate sources - confused his officials and placed an excessive burden on his own
shoulders; but since other statesmen, including Franklin Roosevelt and Winston
Churchill, did precisely the same (pp. 31-2 below) historians should not be too
quick to condemn.
These comparisons also help to avoid the common temptation to dismiss
failures as inevitable and to assume that, if only the participants had been a little
more ‘rational’, they would have tailored their plans more closely to their resources.
The much-maligned George III, ruler of another empire on which the sun
never set, addressed this fallacy eloquently in a letter to his chief minister. Lord
North, during the American Revolutionary War:
No inclination to get out of the present difficulties . . . can incline me to enter
into what I look upon as the distruction of the empire. I have heard Lord North
frequently drop that the advantages to be gained by this contest could never
repay the expence. I owne that, let any war be ever so successful, if persons will
set down and weigh the expences they will find . . . that it has impoverished the
state, enriched individuals, and perhaps raised the name only of the conquerors.
But this is only weighing such events in the scale of a tradesman behind his
counter. It is necessary for those in the station it has pleased Divine Providence
to place me to weigh whether expences, though very great, are not sometimes
necessary to prevent what might be more ruinous to a country than the loss of
money.
To understand what seemed rational to early modern statesmen and strategists,
their mental universe and assumptions must enter the equation.^
This book seeks to engage three groups of readers. First, and most obviously, those
who share the author’s fascination with Philip should find something of interest
here. It is now thirty-two years since I first struggled to read the king’s tortuous
script; yet it survives in such copious quantities that much of what he wrote has
inevitably remained unread. However, I believe that enough material composed
by the king and his intimate advisers has been consulted to provide a coherent
picture of how they viewed the changing international situation and how they
strove to turn events to their advantage. Second, the strategic analysts from whom
I have learned so much may be surprised to find that the same issues and problems
that they study in the modern world also confronted statesmen and officials four
hundred years ago. They too may therefore find something of value in this volume.
Finally, many of those with an interest in the rise and fall of great powers will be
challenged by the ‘non-linear’ conclusions of this study, for in each of the casestudies
examined small factors apparently produced relatively rapid and wholly
disproportionate consequences.
Preface XIX
The non-linear theory of historical causation has long been unfashionable.
Fernand Braudel, for example, the most eminent European historian of this
century, dismissed ‘events’ as merely ‘surface disturbances, crests of foam that the
tides of history carry on their strong backs’; he sought the explanation for major
phenomena in the complex structures of the Past. Writing in May 1946, he issued
an explicit warning that
The historian who takes a seat in Philip IPs chair and reads his papers finds
himself transported into a strange one-dimensional world, a world of strong
passions certainly, blind like any other living world, our own included, and
unconscious of the deeper realities of history, of the running waters on which
our frail barks are tossed like cockleshells. A dangerous world, but one whose
spells and enchantments we shall have exorcised by making sure first to chart
those underlying currents, often noiseless, whose direction can only be discerned
by watching them over long periods of time. Resounding events ar^
often only momentary outbursts, surface manifestations of these larger movements
and explicable only in terms of them.^
‘Often’, however, is not the same as ‘always’. I do not believe that history is always
a linear process in which the explanation for every major event must be sought in
developments that stretch back decades if not centuries; on the contrary, relatively
minor developments have sometimes produced a disproportionate, even decisive
impact without being merely ‘surface manifestations’ of larger movements. It
seems to me that the non-linear processes found in Nature also operate in History,
since a small event — sometimes. c.al led ‘the tipping point’ — can sometimes start
a new trend: and nowhere do tiny and seemingly trivial forces produce unexpected
major changes more frequently than.ia.war.This is pre-eminently true of combat;
but it also affects strategy, which involves the deployment of such huge quantities
of men, money, munitions and ancillary services — logistics, communications,
intelligence — that outcomes and results can seldom be predicted on any rational
basis.^
Many of Philip II’s contemporaries agreed. To the Amsterdam magistrate
Cornelis Pieterszoon Hooft, writing in 1617, the defeat of Spain seemed, even in
retrospect, very remarkable: ‘Our origins were very small and modest,’ he wrote.
‘In comparison with the king of Spain we were like a mouse against an elephant.’*
In the 1570s and 1580s, the focus of this volume, time after time Philip mobilized
sufficient resources — not only military and naval but also diplomatic,
economic and moral — to secure victory, only to be thwarted by something that he
had failed to foresee, and for which his plans left no place. This is not to claim, of
course, that structural considerations played no role in the outcome: the fact that
Philip’s decision-making style left no place for contingencies or fail-back strategies
proved a crucial defect; so did the circumstance that the Monarchy he had
to defend lacked geographical cohesion, so that several exposed parts repeatedly
came under threat from one enemy or another. In the end it is a question of
DCl- C D
n
P o '*2 - P" p3 3^ O CL
^ "li
rot OP
CL
n
'<cr CX-!
<yi i/3 tD CP »SN Qrq 3
»P2 ^hi
M Y V
r, 3
C/5
op
p
CL
cn
rPD* QHfq)
o ^
X n
9O o^
oS 3
nC>O (mn
£- ^
p*
rpt
Tp* 'T(T)
O to
== 3
3- 3-
(T)
cor
erg
p
P
Cl
p
r3
p
9 3
po- P“
3 8 ^ p P- ’-I'
3- ^ °
2 ^ -
^ g ^
i-J rr\
§11'
S-S-i
S fc sm
CO
S
P ^
cr rt
P -
2-
3 %
3 8
P“ ps Sp ^rD
O n
PD-
-2
cr c
Chronology
m
Spain, Portugal, Italy and the France, Germany and the
Mediterranean Netherlands
England, Scotland and Overseas
1548
1549- 50
1550— 51 War with Turks in the Mediterranean begins
(to 1578)
1554 Philip II leaves Spain (until 1559); war of Siena
(to 1555); Charles V abdicates as king of Naples
in favour of Philip
1555 Paul IV elected pope (to 1559)
1556 Charles abdicates as king of Spain in favour of
Philip; Paul IV declares war on Philip and
Charles (to 1557)
1557 First ‘decree of bankruptcy’; French invade Italy
1558
1559 Peace with France; Philip returns to Spain;
‘General Visitation’ for the Spanish states in
Italy; Pius IV elected pope (to 1565)
Augsburg Transaction
Philip in the Netherlands
Philip in Germany; Habsburg family compact at
Augsburg
Charles V abdicates in Brussels, which becomes
Philip’s capital (to 1559)
Truce (February) and war (July) with France
Battle of St Quentin
Battle of Gravelines; Francis, dauphin of France,
marries Mary queen of Scots; Charles abdicates
as Holy Roman Emperor, his brother Ferdinand
succeeds (to 1564)
Peace of Cateau-Cambresis; Philip marries
Elisabeth de Valois (to 1568); death of Henry II
of France; Francis II succeeds; Philip leaves
Netherlands for Spain
Philip marries Mary Tudor and resides in
England (to 1555)
Philip returns briefly to England, which declares
war on France and Scotland (to 1559)
Death of Mary Tudor, succeeded by Elizabeth
(to 1603); Scottish Protestants begin rebellion
against regency government led by Mary of
Guise; Mary queen of Scots marries Francis of
France
Peace of Cateau-Cambresis; French
reinforcements drive back Scottish Protestants
until English fleet cuts them off; Philip returns
to Spain; Francis II and Mary Stuart become
joint rulers of Scotland and France (to 1560),
with claims to England and Ireland
1560
1561
1562
1563
1564
1565
1566
1567
1568
1569
1570
1571
1572
1573
1574
1575
1576
Spain, Portugal, Italy and the
Mediterranean
Second ‘decree of bankruptcy’; Djerba expedition
Philip moves Court to Madrid
Council of Trent reconvenes for final session
(to 1563)
Turks besiege Oran; Philip in Aragon (to 1564)
Penon de Velez expedition; last French garrisons
leave Italy; Corsican revolt against Genoa
(to 1569)
Turks besiege Malta
Pius V elected pope (to 1572); Sultan Suleiman
campaigns in Hungary but dies there; Selim II
succeeds (to 1578)
Don Carlos arrested and dies; revolt of Moriscos
begins (to 1571); death of Elisabeth de Valois
France, Germany and the
Netherlands
Death of Francis of France, Charles IX succeeds
(Catherine de Medici regent)
First French civil war (to 1563)
Spanish expeditionary force helps French crown
against Huguenots; English trade war with
Netherlands (to 1565)
Granvelle leaves Netherlands; Maximilian II
elected Holy Roman Emperor (to 1576)
Iconoclastic Fury and rebellion in the
Netherlands; Philip resolves to send the duke of
Alba with an army to restore order
Second French civil war (to 1568); Alba and his
army arrive in Brussels; ‘Council of Troubles’
created
Third French civil war (to 1570); William of
Orange and his brothers unsuccessfully invade
Netherlands
England, Scotland and Overseas
English army enters Scotland, secures
withdrawal of French (treaty of Leith) and
toleration for Protestantism
Mary Stuart returns to Scotland
Trade war between England and the
Netherlands (to 1565)
French colonists settle in Florida
Spanish forces attack French settlers in Florida;
Miguel Lopez de Legazpi claims Philippines for
Spain
French in Florida imprisoned or executed
Mary Stuart deposed and imprisoned
Mary Stuart escapes and flees to England; ‘Junta
Magna’ in Spain establishes new policies for
American colonies; John Hawkins and Francis
Drake defeated at San Juan de Uliia; Philip
orders the recall of English ambassador John
Man; Elizabeth seizes treasure ships sailing from
Spain to Flanders
Nueva Recopilacion published
Turks invade Venetian Cyprus; Turkish vassal
takes Tunis
Spain occupies Finale and signs the Holy League
(with Venice and the pope); Turks complete
conquest of Cyprus; battle of Lepanto
Gregory XIII elected pope (to 1585)
Venice makes separate peace with Turks; Spain
recaptures Tunis but surrenders Finale to
imperial commissioners
Turks take Tunis and La Goletta
Third ‘decree of bankruptcy’; Relaciones
topogrdficas compiled in Castile
Orange and his brothers fight with Huguenots
in France; Spanish troops help French crown
against Huguenots; trade war between Philip
and England (to 1573); Alba imposes new taxes
on the Netherlands
Charles IX begins collaboration with Huguenots
(to 1572); Philip marries Anna of Austria (to
1580); Alba reforms the Netherlands legal
system
Alba decrees Alcabala for the Netherlands
William of Orange and his brothers invade
Netherlands, but lasting success only in Holland
and Zealand; massacre of Huguenots in Paris
(St Bartholomew’s Day) and other French cities;
fourth French civil war (to 1573)
Spaniards take Haarlem but fail against
Alkmaar; Alba recalled, replaced by Don Luis
de Requesens (to 1576)
Spaniards fail to take Leiden; Charles IX
provides financial aid to Dutch but dies,
succeeded by Henry III; fifth French civil war
(to 1576)
Abortive peace conference at Breda between
Philip and the Dutch; Spanish treasury declares
‘bankruptcy’
Spanish army in the Netherlands mutinies; most
Netherlands provinces make peace with Holland
and Zealand; independent States-General
convened; Don John of Austria arrives to govern
the Netherlands (to 1578); Rudolf II elected
Holy Roman Emperor (to 1612)
New trade war between England and Philip’s
possessions (to 1573); ‘Northern rebellion’
against Elizabeth
Papal bull declares Elizabeth deposed and
excommunicated
‘Ridolfi Plot’ against Elizabeth; Legazpi captures
Manila; attempt to impose Alcabala in Mexico
England and Scotland send initial assistance to
Dutch rebels; Viceroy Don Pedro de Toledo
begins campaign against the last Inca outposts
in Peru
Drake raids Panama; partial restoration of trade
between Philip and Elizabeth
Peace of Bristol between Elizabeth and Philip
Spain, Portugal, Italy and the France, Germany and the
Mediterranean Netherlands
England, Scotland and Overseas
1577
1578
1579
1580
1581
1582
1583
1584
One-year truce with the Turks (extended for a
second year); death of Sultan Selim II; death of
Sebastian of Portugal (Cardinal Henry succeeds)
One-year truce with the Turks; death of Henry I
of Portugal; Philip claims succession, invades
and moves to Portugal (to 1583); Dom Antonio
(claimant to the Portuguese throne) seeks
support in France and England
Three-year truce with the Turks; Philip crowned
king of Portugal
Azores campaign
Philip returns to Castile; Terceira campaign
One-year truce with the Turks (the last)
Don John first makes peace with States-Genetal,
then breaks it (hostilities continue until 1607);
sixth French civil war
Henry Ill’s brother Anjou leads French aid to
States-General; prince of Parma governs
Netherlands for the king (to 1592)
Abortive peace conference at Cologne between
Philip and the Dutch
Seventh French civil war
States-General depose Philip II and recognize
Anjou as ‘prince and lord of the Netherlands’;
Anjou betrothed to Elizabeth of England;
Erench troops occupy Cambrai (to 1595)
Erench support for Dom Antonio in Azores
Parma reconquers Elanders coast
Anjou dies, leaving Henty of Navarre as heir
presumptive to Erench crown; William of
Orange assassinated; Erench Catholics led by
Henry of Guise form a League and sign treaty
of Joinville with Spain; Parma reconquers most
of Elanders
Drake’s ‘circumnavigation’ begins (to 1581);
Relactoms topogrdficas ordered for Spanish
America
Philip covertly sponsors Smerwick expedition
Smerwick gartison surrenders and is executed
Portuguese overseas empire recognizes Philip’s
succession
Edward Eenton’s voyage to the Moluccas fails in
Brazil
Philip covertly supports plots hatched by
Throckmorton and by Erench Catholics against
Elizabeth
Throckmorton plot discovered; Ambassador
Mendoza expelled; English colony established at
Roanoke (to 1585); Spanish attempt to measure
longitude via simultaneous observation of a
lunar eclipse in Europe, Mexico, Manila and
Macao
a
1585
1586
1587
1588
1589
1590
1591
1592
Revolt of Naples; Sixtus V elected pope (to
1590); duke of Savoy marries Infanta Catalina;
Philip in Aragon (to 1586); Drake raids Galicia,
the Canaries and Cape Verde Islands
Preparations for Armada begin
Drake’s raid on Cadiz
Spanish Armada; duke of Savoy annexes Saluzzo
English attack Corunna and Portugal
Urban VII (1590) and Gregory XIV elected
pope (to 1591); Millones tax voted in Castile
Innocent IX elected pope; revolt of Aragon;
capture of the Revenge off the Azores
Clement VIII elected pope (to 1605); Philip
visits Old Castile and Aragon
Treaty of Nemours between Henry III and
French Catholic League; Parma reconquers most
of Brabant; Elizabeth of England signs treaty of
Nonsuch with States-General
Eighth Erench civil war (to 1598)
German Protestant troops, raised by Huguenots,
defeated by League and Spanish forces; Parma
prepares to invade England
Parma stands ready to invade England; Henry
III flees Paris and the League takes control (to
1594); assassination of Henty of Guise
Henry III assassinated; Huguenot leader Henry
of Navarre becomes Henry IV, but not
recognized by Catholic League; Navarre defeats
League at Arques; Parma suggests peace talks
with the Dutch
Navarre defeats League at Ivry; Spanish
expeditionary force lands in Brittany; Parma
breaks Navarre’s siege of Paris; duke of Savoy
invades Provence
Dutch under Maurice of Nassau begin
reconquest of North Netherlands; abortive peace
conference at Cologne between Philip and the
Dutch
English expeditionary force to Normandy;
Parma breaks Navarre’s siege of Rouen, but dies
soon afterwards
Drake attacks Philip’s possessions in Spain, the
Canaries, Cape Verde and (1586) the Caribbean;
treaty of Nonsuch signed with the Dutch; earl
of Leicester sent as governor-general of the
Dutch Republic (to 1588). Hostilities with
Spain last until 1603-4
Hawkins blockades the Spanish coast;
Babington plot against Elizabeth; Cavendish
begins circumnavigation (to 1589)
Drake attacks Cadiz and captures a Portuguese
East Indiaman
Bourbourg peace conference; the Spanish
Armada
English raid on Corunna and Portugal
English fleet cruises off the Azores
English fleet cruises off the Azores, Revenge lost;
English expeditionary force to Brittany (to
1595)
English expeditionary force to Normandy (to
1593)
1593 Unrest in Portugal (Alemtejo, Beja)
Spain, Portugal, Italy and the France, Germany and the
Mediterranean Netherlands
England, Scotland and Overseas
1594
1595
1596
1597
1598
1601
1603
1604
1607
Henry IV gains Paris and Rouen Outbreak of Tyrone’s rebellion in Ireland (to
1603)
France declares war (to 1598) Henry IV declares war on Philip II (to 1598)
and defeats Spanish expeditionary force from
Milan
Drake and Hawkins lead major expedition to
the Caribbean (to 1596); first Dutch fleet sails
for East Indies
Anglo-Dutch fleet captures and sacks Cadiz;
Spain sends aid to Irish rebels; Spanish Armada
sails against England but driven back; fourth
‘decree of bankruptcy’
Archduke Albert becomes ruler of Spanish
Netherlands (to 1621) and captures Calais from
French; Spanish treasury issues ‘decree of
bankruptcy’
Anglo-Dutch expedition captures and sacks
Cadiz; Spanish aid arrives for Irish rebels, who
decide to continue their resistance (to 1603)
Papacy annexes Ferrara; third Spanish Armada
sails unsuccessfully to Brittany
English expedition to the Azores
Peace of Vervins; death of Philip II Edict of Nantes ends French civil war; treaty of
Vervins ends war with Spain; Spaniards leave
Brittany and Calais; Philip ‘devolves’
government of Netherlands jointly to Albert
and his daughter Isabella (whom Albert marries),
and dies soon afterwards; Philip III inherits the
rest of his father’s Monarchy
Tyrone defeats English in battle; English raid
Puerto Rico; several Dutch fleets sail for East
Indies
Spanish expeditionary force lands at Kinsale
(evacuated 1602)
Irish rebellion ends; death of Elizabeth; James
VI of Scotland succeeds and orders a cease-fire
war against Spain
Peace of London
Ceasefire in the Netherlands (Twelve Year Truce
agreed 1609)
wm
Si sSi
II-
5
•
2
2 Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand Strategy?
According to Edward Luttwak, Grand Strategies should be judged primarily
according to ‘the extent of their reliance on costly force as opposed to the leverage
of potential force by diplomacy (“armed suasion”), by inducements (subsidies,
gifts, honors), and by deception and propaganda’, because the architectural
dictum of Mies van de Rohe also applies here: ‘Less is more’ — the most effective
Grand Strategies do as little as is necessary to defeat or deter challengers.^
Although Philip II worried periodically about cash-flow problems (see p. 199
below), he could clearly afford to use ‘costly force’ throughout his reign - indeed
he sometimes fought on several fronts at once - thanks to the vast resources, both
demographic and material, at his disposal (see Figure i). The economy of Spain,
the hub of the Monarchy, continued buoyant and productive (at least in comparison
with the rest of Europe) at least until the 1580s, and other dominions
(especially southern Italy and the Americas) contributed handsomely to the imperial
budget. Nevertheless Philip also deployed diplornacy,.inducements, deception,
deterrence and (to a lesser degree) propaganda - as well as financial,
^^^ommercial and ethical pressure - in pursuit of his strategic goals.^
The absence of a comprehensive masterplan among the papers of Philip and his
^-ministers does not prove the absence of comprehensive ambitior^~~ai~Paul
Kennedy shrewdly recognized, ‘had the Habsburg rulers achieved all of their
limited regional aims - even their defensive aims - the mastery of Europe would
virtually have been theirs’.The very size of Philip’s possessions meant that he
Figure i Philip’s Monarchy enjoyed peace for only six months: between February and September
1577, when hostilities ceased in both the Netherlands and the Mediterranean. Thereafter,
although the king never went to war with the Turks again, conflict returned to the Netherlands
(lasting until 1609) and began with England (1585-1603), involving attacks on Spain, the
Atlantic Islands, the Americas and the High Seas). After 1589 Philip became increasingly
involved in the French Religious Wars until the peace of Vervins in 1598. Meanwhile, overseas,
the Portuguese outposts in Africa and South Asia engaged in various hostilities: first against their
local enemies, above all in Ceylon, and then against the Dutch.
Philip Us wars
Mediterranean
England
France
Netherlands
Americas
Asia
Africa
Iberian Peninsula
:—^^^^_______I_______
,,5^
Armed neutrality/Armed intervention
Plate I Philip IPs empire. The annexation of Portugal and her overseas empire in 1580 made Philip II the
ruler of the first empire in history on which the sun never set. Although its core — and its king — remained in
Europe, issues concerning Africa, Asia and America regularly flowed across Philip’s desk and required countless
decisions.
could almost always plausibly argue that something or someone threatened the
security of one area or another. Although he failed to succeed to Charles’s Imperial
title, by 1577 his Monarchy’s ‘banners and standards have crossed more than one
third of the world, from Sicily to Cuzco and to the province of Quito, a distance
which includes nine hours of difference . . . And if we measure its extent, from
north to south, it covers one quarter of the earth.’ By the end of his reign, with the
conquest of the Philippines in full swing and Portugal and its global possessions
annexed, Philip’s dominions spanned all twenty-four of the world’s time-zones,
making it (according to one contemporary) ‘the greatest empire known since the
creation of the world’ (Plate i).^ In the grudging words of William Camden, a
vigorous opponent, Philip had become ‘A prince whose empire extended so farre
and wide, above all emperors before him, that he might truly say, Sol mihi semper
lucef. the sunne always shineth upon me’.^
Meanwhile cultural imperialism, combined with cruder forms of propaganda,
extended the king’s influence far beyond the bounds of the Monarchy itself. 1
Numerous works'written by tEe dynasty’s Subjects and supporters openly called
upon the Habsburgs to establish a ‘Universal Monarchy’. Charles V’s election in
1519 as Holy Roman Emperor gave rise to polemics inviting the new ruler to
imitate the achievements of his namesake Charlemagne and unite all
Christendom, and his imperial coronation by the pope in 1530 occasioned a fresh
torrent of prophetic pamphlets which portrayed Charles as a second Augustus.
4 Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand Strategy?
Juan Gines de Sepulveda, later appointed tutor to the future Philip II, wrote one
of the more extreme of these imperialist tracts and no doubt tried to pass his ideas
on to his young charge/ Philip’s journey from Spain to the Netherlands in 1548,
the victory of Lepanto in 1571 and the annexation of Portugal in 1580 all
provoked similar literary effusions urging the Habsburgs to acquire a ‘Universal
Monarchy’. A further spate of universalist literature written in the 1590s, in both
Italy and Spain, culminated in the apocalyptic ‘Monarchy of Spain’ begun by
Tommaso Campanella in 1600.^
The imperial theme also appeared in the works of art commissioned by Philip
and his Court. The iconography of the king’s ceremonial entry into Lisbon in
1581 included one triumphal arch that showed Janus surrendering the keys of his
temple ‘as if to the lord of the world, who holds it securely under his rule’, while
another bore the legend ‘The world, which was divided between your greatgrandfather
King Ferdinand the Catholic and your grandfather King Manuel of
Portugal, is now linked into one, since you are lord of everything in the East and
West’.^ A medal struck in 1583 made the same point more concisely: it showed
the king with the inscription PHILIPP ii HISP ET NOVI ORBis REX (Philip II, king
of Spain and the New World) on the obverse, and on the reverse, around a
terrestrial globe, the uncompromising legend non sufficit orbis (The world is
not enough) (Plate 2). This bold device quickly came into general use. When Sir
Francis Drake and his men entered the Governor’s Mansion in Santo Domingo in
1586 they found a ‘scutchion’ of the royal arms of Spain which contained a globe
and a scroll ‘wherein was written these words in Latin NON SVFFICIT ORBis’. The
English — understandably — found it a ‘very notable marke and token of the
vnsatiable ambition of the Spanishe King and his nation’ (Plate 3) and Drake
apparently took it away with him in disgust.^” Another medal of 1585, in a
conscious attempt to go beyond the plus ultra (‘Onwards and upwards’) motto
of Charles V, displayed the zodiac with the phrase ultra anni solisque vias
(‘Beyond the solar circuit of the year’, a slight emendation of Vergil’s tribute to
the unprecedented power of the Roman Emperor Augustus in the Aeneid) ‘because
God has given him {Philip} a greater inheritance; and with his great power
he could be lord of Cambodia and China and of other vast provinces if he
wished’.All over Europe, Spanish art, drama, dress and even comedy found eager
imitators._^^...... ...__ ..... ... ...............................................
// Nevertheless Philip constantly sought to reassure his neighbours that they had
\ nothing to fear from him. At .the very beginning of his reign he statefi unequivocally
that T would very much like to justify my actions to the whole world and
I show that I do not lay claim to other states’ (although he quickly added ‘I also
I wish it to be clearly understood that I will defend the lands which {Charles V] has
I given me’). In 1572, as he mobilized a vast army to suppress the Dutch Revolt
and, at the same time, placed his forces elsewhere in Europe on standby, the king
assured the rulers of Italy that ‘I have no intention of breaking the general peace,
'which is the thing I myself most wish to preserve, and have urged on all of my
ministers. But if ill-intentioned people should think of taking advantage of the
sufficit orbis. After the
‘union of crowns’ in
1580, a new conceit
boldly commemorated
the creation of Philip’s
global empire. A medal
of gilded bronze,
probably cast in 1583,
shows the king on one
side and a globe
surmounted by a horse
on the other, together
with the uncompromising
legend non
SUFFICIT ORBIS - ‘The
world is not enough’.
Three years later, horse,
globe and legend had all
been incorporated into
the royal arms of Spain as
the official ‘logo’ of the
monarchy (at least in the
Governor’s mansion in
Santo Domingo right).
6 Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand Strategy?
. .(^
'f'J
4'
troubles [in the Netherlands} in order to attack my estates and disturb the peace,
they will be restrained when they see that I am ready.His refrain remained
much the same later in the reign: ‘I have no reason to be driven by ambition to
acquire more kingdoms or states, or to gain reputation, because Our Lordlh his
/goodness has given me so much of all these things that I am content,’ he wrote in
1586; and in the 1590s he proclaimed: ‘God is my witness that I have never made
war to gain more kingdoms, but only to maintain them in the [Catholic] faith and
in peace.If Spain nevertheless went to war with foreign powers the king always
-protested that his sole motive was self-defence — that he only fought when he was
himself attacked. Thus he could truthfully assert that the Habsburgs’ conflicts
with France had always begun with a French ultimatum or declaration of war: in
1521, 1536, 1542, 1552 and 1556 — with another projected attack on Spain in
1572 averted only by the assassination of the chief architect of the operation,
Gaspard de Coligny. Philip could likewise claim that his wars against the
j Ottoman Turks were primarily defensive, with Spain mobilizing her forces only
; after an assault upon her or upon one of her allies: after the capture of Tripoli from
! the Knights of St John in 1551, or after the conquest of Cyprus from the
: Venetians in 1570.^^
The states of sixteenth-century Europe faced the same ‘security dilemma’ that
affected their successors in the twentieth, however: every move made by the
dominant power to preserve the status quo inevitably seemed threatening to its
neighbours and therefore increased international tension.The French, German
and English governments all felt directly threatened by the powerful army maintained
by the king nearby in the Netherlands after 1567 — and not without reason,
for it intervened in France in 1569 and in the 1590s, as well as in the Rhineland
in the 1580s; and it aimed to invade England in 1571, in 1576—77 and again in
1587—88. As Lord Burghley, chief minister of Elizabeth I, once observed: ‘If
he [Philip II] once reduce the Low Countries to absolute subjection, I know not
what limits any man of judgment can set unto his greatness.’ England would
become a prey to Philip’s ‘insatiable malice, which is most terrible to be thought
of, but most miserable to suffer’. Even after the failure of the Armada, Burghley
continued to believe that Philip aimed ‘to be lord and commander of all
Christendom’.^^ Seen from Paris, the encircling arms of the Habsburgs — whose
embrace extended from Navarre through northern Italy and Eranche Comte to the
Netherlands — seemed equally intimidating. According to the French Protestant
leader Coligny, ‘In sight of the wisest’ Philip aimed ‘to make himself monarche of
Christendome, or at least to rule the same’; in 1585, his successor Henry of
Navarre complained of ‘the ambition of the Spaniards who, having acquired
domination of so many lands and seas, believe no part of the world to be
inaccessible to them’; and the following year the French envoy in Madrid warned
his government that Philip ‘sought to make himself the greatest [monarch] of all
the princes in Christendom’. In the early seventeenth century several French
pamphleteers called for a pre-emptive strike in order to break what they perceived
to be Habsburg encirclement:
7
On the one side [of France] is Franche-Comte and on the other Naples and
Milan. Seeing Spain in the forefront and Flanders to the rear, will you not
yourself say ‘And what security?' Here, on the contrary is Navarre, which was
once the border of France with Spain and today is that of Spain to France. And
what security?^^
The popes, too, felt uneasy about the temporal power of Spain, for Philip’s
lands surrounded the Papal States and they depended heavily upon the grain
supplied by Habsburg Sicily.'Moreover, no pontiff could overlook either the sack
of Rome in f527 by the troops of Charles V or the ruthless use of hunger and force
against Pope Paul IV in 1556—57 by those of his son. Papal support for the
‘crusades’ of the Spanish Habsburgs, whether launched against infidels or heretics,
therefore tended to remain muted for fear that any Habsburg success might
/^reinforce the dynasty’s European ascendancy. Ironically, Philip himself best
expressed this strategic dilemma. In a splenetic outburst he told the pope in 1580:
‘Most of the misfortunes that have befallen my possessions have occurred because
I have tried so hard to defend the church and extirpate heresy. But the greater
these [misfortunes] have become, the more Your Holiness has forgotten them!’
The pope remained unimpressed, and the following year the king again let off
steam on the subject, this time to a minister:
I assure you that [the pope’s indifference] already has me weary and very close
to losing my patience ... I believe that, if the Netherlands belonged to
someone else, the pope would have performed miracles to prevent them being
lost by the church; but because they are my states, I believe he is prepared to
see this happen because they will be lost by me.
‘There is a lot more I would and could say in this vein,’ the king concluded, ‘but
it is midnight and I am very tired, and these thoughts make me even wearier.’*^
English, French and papal fears of Spain’s aggressive aspirations were not entirely
misplaced. Despite their protestations to the contrary, Philip and his ministers
clearly believed that, at least sometimes, ‘to defend it is necessary to attack’, since
protecting all vulnerable areas would cost far more and achieve far less than a wellaimed
stroke at any declared (or even potential) enemy.His government regularly
received, and duly considered, papers that proposed expanding the Monarchy
by force. Thus in November 1571, in the aftermath of Lepanto, an ambitious
‘Discourse’ arrived at Court explaining how to exploit Spain’s unexpected advantage
with an attack on Tunis (which was in fact assaulted and captured in 1573),
and then on Bizerta, Bougie and Algiers, since these successes in the western basin
of the Mediterranean would inevitably tip the balance of power in Europe in
Spain’s favour. The duke of Alba, Spain’s foremost military commander, entirely
agreed, albeit for other reasons: when asked for his advice on how to exploit the
victory, he strongly recommended an operation to ‘clean up’ the Barbary coast —
Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand Strategy?
8 Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand Strategy?
but as the essential preliminary to an attack on Constantinople, since ‘It is
essential for an efficient conquest not to leave on the flanks anything that might
cause a diversion. That is the “abc” of all who embark on this profession [of
arms}’.In 1574, upon hearing of the death of Charles IX of France, the governor
of Spanish Lombardy urged Philip to seize the favourable opportunity ‘which will
not recur for many years’ in order to seize Saluzzo, Toulon, Marseilles ‘and other
places in France which, because they are poorly defended and cannot be relieved,
will be easy to take’. This single stroke would solve all of Philip’s strategic
problems, he argued, because the French
shelter and stimulate the heresies which lead — and have always led — the Turks
to {attack} Christendom . . . They are the ones who arm North Africa and
support Algiers, and supply them with weapons, equipment and other things;
the ones who incite and assist the prince of Orange and the rebels against Your
Majesty; the ones who stir up and support the hostile intentions of the princes
of the Empire.
A preventive strike against them, the governor concluded, would thus be wholly
justified.^
Similarly combative proposals flowed in periodically from further afield. In
1583 the governor of the Philippines urged his master to sanction an expedition
to conquer China; the next year an official in Macao asserted that ‘With less than
5,000 Spaniards Your Majesty could conquer these lands [China} and become lord
of them, or at least of the maritime areas, which are the most important in any
part of the world’; and the same year the bishop of Malacca advocated pooling the
resources of Spain and Portugal in order first to conquer south-east Asia, and then
to annex southern China, so that ‘His Majesty will be the greatest lord that ever
was in the world’.In 1585 one of Philip’s officials in Manila called for the king
‘to evict and expel the Muslims from all the Philippine islands, or at least to
subject them and make them pay tribute, vanquishing those in Java, Sumatra,
Acheh, Borneo, Mindanao, Solo, the Moluccas, Malacca, Siam, Patani, Pegu and
other kingdoms which venerate Mohammed’. The following year a ‘general
assembly’ of the Spanish inhabitants of the Philippines, led by the bishop and the
governor, drew up a lengthy memorandum advocating the conquest of China and
sent a messenger to Spain with orders to present their arguments to the king in
person.More imperialist schemes followed in the 1590s: Manoel de Andrada
Castel Blanco, a Portuguese priest long resident in America and Africa, forwarded
to the king an ambitious global strategy, arguing that the fortification of six
widely separated strongpoints — Johore, St Helena, Goeree, Sierra Leone, Bahia
and Santa Catalina — would guarantee Iberian commercial supremacy around the
globe; and various enthusiasts in east Asia continued to harp on the ease with
which China and Japan might be conquered by the Iberians.^’ ....... .
^ Although Philip decided not to act on any of these expansionist suggestions, a
\ ‘global’ strategic vision clearly underlay other more modest initiatives undertaken
Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand. Strategy ?
_ L-Jn 1559, for example, having created a new council to advise
him on the administration of his extensive Italian dominions, the king commissioned
a simultaneous visita, or general inspection, for his three main peninsular
possessions — Lombardy, Naples and Sicily — in order to reform and streamline
their bureaucracies.^^ Ih 1567 TiFHfabKSe^ alwH^ foFth'e~council of
eaded by Juan de Ovando, a minister who, according to a colleague, ‘Normally
dealt wi£h"airbusihess entrusted to him by anatomizing it, creating new skeletons
and proposals until he found all their heads; then he would study the heads and
master them’. Ovando found almost a thousand matters that required attention,
but (characteristically) isolated just two major areas in need of urgent reform: first,
the councillors possessed little knowledge of the Americas and so did not understand
their problems; second, neither the council nor its ministers in America
showed sufficient familiarity with the legislation in force. To remedy the first,
Ovando proposed the creation of a ‘chronicler and cosmographer of the Indies’ and
commissioned a series of geographical and territorial investigations to elicit
information on the New World (see pp. 61—5 below); for the second he recommended
the collection and publication of all current laws (a project begun
immediately although not completed until 1680). Meanwhile, in 1568, following
mniQurs,. that the pope might revoke the royal rights of patronage In the New
World and appoint a nuncio for the Americas, Philip created a high-powered
committee to overhaul the entire administration of Spain’s overseas colonies.
The ‘Junta Magna’, as it became known, made recommendations for all areas of
colonial policy: to improve religious observance it advocated appointing bishops
born on the American continent and the creation of four new tribunals of the
Inquisition; to ameliorate the lot of indigenous subjects it proposed reforms to the
landholding system; to stimulate the economy it devised new regulations for
mining, commerce and manufacture; to augment the crown’s revenues, it advocated
a combination of tribute levied on communities rather than on individuals,
and a new sales tax (the alcabala)?''
Not all of the junta’s recommendations took effect immediately or in full, but
some of them formed part of an even broader policy initiative. At much the same
time Philip’s ministers in the Low Countries began to overhaul the legal system
and introduced new taxes there too. In January 1568, just before the Junta Magna
began to meet, the duke of Alba, Philip’s governor-general in the Netherlands,
wrote that he intended to implement the king’s instructions to ‘place these
provinces under a single [system of} law and customs’, creating (as Alba put it) ‘a
new world’. In just over two years new legislation both unified the criminal law
and standardized the procedure in criminal trials throughout the Low Countries,
while over a hundred local customs were codified.At the same time, at Philip’s
insistence. Alba proposed new taxes to the representative assemblies of the Netherlands
in order to balance his budget and end his financial dependence on Spain.
One was ‘the Hundredth Penny’, a i per cent tax on all capital, collected as a
percentage of the yield of each investment during the year 1569-70 rather than
on its declared value (thus discouraging undervaluation): it has been hailed as the
lo Introduction: Did Philip II Have a Grand Strategy?
‘most modern tax ever levied in early modern Europe’.The duke also proposed
a lo per cent sales tax, known both as the ‘Tenth Penny’ and as the alcahala. He
justified these new taxes in terms remarkably similar to those used shortly
afterwards in Philip’s decree of November 1571 for all of Spanish America, which
ordered the ‘viceroys, presidents and judges of our Audiencias, and governors of
the provinces of Peru, New Spain, Chile, Popayan, New Granada and of all other
parts of our Indies’ to impose a sales tax;
You are well aware that my treasury is exhausted, consumed and encumbered
by the great and continuous expenses that I have incurred here for many years,
sustaining large armies and navies for the defence of Christendom and of my
kingdoms, and for the conservation and upkeep of my states and lordships.
Neither my revenues, nor the projects and expedients attempted, nor the
assistance and taxes of these kingdoms [of Castile} have sufficed.
The king therefore commanded all ‘Spanish, mestizo, mulatto and free Black \
subjects’ throughout the Americas to shoulder the cost of their own defence by
paying the new sales tax.^° An imperial government that could, with a single
order and a single justification, impose a new tax on an entire continent thousands j
of kilometres away, and at the same time introduce innovative levies in the Low I
Countries, hundreds of kilometres distant in another direction, possessed both the |
vision and the machinery to pursue a Grand Strategy.^^ ............. ....................
In the military and diplomatic sphere, although some of Philip’s designs failed,
others spectacularly succeeded. Philip’s agents conquered most of the Philippines,
recovered much of the Netherlands, and acquired the entire Portuguese empire.
In 1587-88 the king assembled an amphibious force, at the staggering cost of
30,000 ducats a day, that represented (according to friend and foe alike) ‘the
largest fleet that has ever been seen in these seas since the creation of the world’
and ‘the greatest and strongest combination, to my understanding, that ever was
gathered in Christendom’.^^ For the last twenty-five years of his reign he maintained
between 70,000 and 90,000 soldiers in the Low Countries - in what some
enthusiasts called Castra Dei (God’s encampment) - with perhaps as many men
again serving in garrisons elsewhere around the globe. In 1593 even one of his
inveterate enemies, William Louis of Nassau, had to admit that Philip ranked as
‘the greatest monarch in the world’.Why, then, did he fail to achieve so many
of his major foreign policy goals?
Part I: The Context of
Strategic Culture
One reason the Kennedy and Johnson administrations failed to take an orderly,
rational approach to the basic questions underlying Vietnam was the staggering
variety and complexity of other issues we faced. Simply put, we faced a
blizzard of problems, there were only twenty-four hours in a day, and we
often did not have time to think straight. This predicament is not unique to the
administration in which I served or to the United States. It has existed at all
times and in most countries. I have never seen a thoughtful examination of the
problem. It existed then, it exists today, and it ought to be recognized and
planned for when organizing a government.^
Robert Strange McNamara, the author of this lament, has, like Philip II, generally
had a very bad press. Both men failed to achieve most of their policy goals; both
sacrificed lives, resources and reputation on a prodigious scale; both left their
countries weaker than when they took office. Furthermore, McNamara’s ‘explanation’
for his failure — which recurs frequently in his memoirs — overlooks the
obvious fact that every Great Power must expect to confront a ‘blizzard of
problems’, and so cannot normally concentrate on a single threat for long. To
expect otherwise, as McNamara seems to have done, is unrealistic, unreasonable
and unwise.
The government of Philip II naturally differed greatly from that of the United
States four centuries later. Most obviously, its ruler exercised absolute power by
hereditary right, coming to power by genes rather than ‘grey cells’ — and a
somewhat restricted pool of genes at that, given the remarkable propensity of
many European dynasties, led by the Habsburgs, to marry close relatives (see
table 3, p. 79 below and table 7, p. 294). Perhaps because of this in-breeding, the
number of outstandingly successful, intelligent and sympathetic hereditary rulers
remains fairly small. Moreover, sixteenth-century communications also varied
dramatically from those of today: then, messages from distant theatres of operations
took weeks if not months to arrive (and decisions took just as long to send
back), whereas a modern commander-in-chief can consult with his subordinates at
the front in ‘real time’. Finally, sixteenth-century statesmen, confronted by the
II
12
religious passions unleashed by the Reformation, found their freedom to
manoeuvre - and above all their ability to compromise - severely restricted by
ideology. Admittedly, some leaders managed to overcome this: Henry of Navarre,
leader of the French Protestants, converted to Catholicism in 1593 specifically to
secure the surrender of the nation’s capital, allegedly remarking as he did so that
‘Paris is well worth a Mass’. Philip II and most of his contemporaries could never
have done that.
Perhaps, however, these contrasts are more apparent than real. Outstandingly
successful, intelligent and sympathetic statesmen are rare in any age, whatever
their path to power; although slow by twentieth-century standards, Philip IPs
communications system worked faster and better than that of any rival state; and
the ideological passions unleashed by communism have exercised a powerful
influence on modern international relations. Above all, the same three considerations
shaped strategic culture in the sixteenth century as in the twentieth: first,
the prevailing structure of command and control - the means chosen by each
government to formulate and achieve its strategic goals; second, the network of
communications and intelligence created to assemble information on the prevailing
threats and to overcome the obstacles posed by time and distance; and, finally,
the assumptions that inform its strategic vision and influence the selection of its
strategic priorities, so that despite the ‘blizzard of problems’ that faced them, they
still had ‘time to think straight’.
Towards the end of his self-serving memoirs of the 1960s, Robert McNamara
once more paused to address the structural problem that he held largely responsible
for the failure of his Vietnam policies:
Readers must wonder by now - if they have not been mystified long before -
how presumably intelligent, hardworking, and experienced officials - both
civilian and military - failed to address systematically and thoroughly questions
whose answers so deeply affected the lives of our citizens and the welfare
of our nation. Simply put, such an orderly, rational approach was precluded by
the ‘crowding out’ which resulted from the fact that Vietnam was but one of a
multitude of problems we confronted. Any one of the issues facing Washington
during the 1960s justified the full attention of the president and his associates.^
The three chapters that follow examine how, four centuries earlier, Philip II and
his ‘presumably intelligent, hardworking, and experienced officials’ addressed the
‘multitude of problems’ that confronted the global empire over which they ruled,
and the nature - and adequacy - of the command structure, the communications
system, and the assumptions that they brought to the task.
The Context of Strategic Culture
I ‘The Largest Brain in the World’
For much of his life Philip II, like his contemporary Elizabeth Tudor, lacked a
suitable successor. Had he died in 1555, at the same age as his grandfather, Philip
I (28), he would never have succeeded to the throne; had he died in 1570, at the
same age as his only surviving son, Philip III (43), his possessions would have
passed to his four-year-old elder daughter; had he died in 1585 at the same age as
his father Charles V (58), he would have left his vast Monarchy to a sickly son of
seven.^ In fact, like Elizabeth, Philip II lived longer than any previous sovereign
of his dynasty, but of course no one at the time - whether friend or foe - could
foresee this. Thus in 1574 a concerned minister begged ‘Your Majesty, on whose
life and health every present undertaking depends, to rest and recover from your
labours’; while in 1580, when the duke of Alba found out that his master had
fallen ill with a fever, he berated his chief ally at Court: ‘It is not reasonable, sir,
that when His Majesty is ill, even only slightly, I should not know about it within
a matter of hours’.^ In 1583, according to a minister in the Low Countries, the
Dutch rebels ‘placed all their hope in the king’s death’; three years later, the
French ambassador in Madrid wrote that ‘Well-informed Spaniards foresee a
dramatic change in the entire Monarchy should Philip die’; and shortly after
that the Venetian ambassador argued that the whole Spanish Monarchy ‘is held
together by the authority and wisdom of the king, and if he were to die everything
would fall into confusion and danger’.^
In the event, from the time of his father’s abdication in 1555—56 until his own
death in 1598 aged 71 Philip ruled absolutely. At the beginning of the reign,
when he promoted a man of humble birth to be primate of all Spain, the wife of
a courtier irreverently commented: ‘These are the miracles that the king now
wishes to perform, and they seem very like those of Christ, who made men out of
clay’; by its end, however, many of his servants and subjects genuinely saw him as
the incarnation of God on earth, believed he had been a saint, and attributed
miracles to him.^ Philip himself made no such claims — on one occasion he wrote
‘I don’t know if [people} think I’m made of iron or stone. The truth is, they need
to see that I am mortal, like everyone else’ — but he seldom had qualms about
exercising his absolute power over life and death. On the one hand, in 1571 he
13
14
pardoned numerous prisoners in Spain and the Indies to celebrate the birth of a
son and heir, and in 1580 as he entered his new kingdom of Portugal in triumph
he freed prisoners along his route/On the other hand, during the decade 1566-
76 he had over 1,200 of his Low Countries’ subjects executed by a special legal
tribunal because they disagreed with his views on religion and politics. In 1580
he placed a price on the head of William of Nassau prince of Orange, his most
eminent Dutch vassal, and four years later he rewarded handsomely the family of
the prince’s assassin. Foreigners who opposed him could likewise expect no mercy
if they fell into his power. In 1572, when his forces in the Netherlands captured
some of Orange’s high-ranking French supporters, Philip ordered that they be
kept under strict guard but ‘should any fear arise that they might be rescued, it
will be necessary to kill them’. A year later he ordered them to be secretly
murdered anyway.^
These, however, were extreme and unusual cases. Philip normally took great
pains to exercise his authority through established constitutional channels. On
one occasion he sent back a set of orders unsigned since ‘it seems to me that there
are problems, because those for the three kingdoms of the crown of Aragon, and
especially the one for Aragon itself, will not be obeyed and are against the fueros
[local customs}’. All royal letters for his eastern kingdoms, the king pointed out,
should be issued by the council of Aragon and he ordered them to be redrafted.^
Thanks in part to this sensitivity, Philip enjoyed great popularity among most of
his subjects. When he returned to Madrid in 1583, after an absence of almost
three years in Portugal, the enthusiastic crowds that poured out of the city to
welcome him ‘stretched over a mile from the palace, as much outside the city as
inside, with as many men and women at the windows and on the roofs. It was
almost incredible. I would never have thought that this city contained half of the
people whom I saw then.’
Despite at least seven assassination attempts, for most of his reign Philip
travelled unarmed through crowded streets and deserted fields; he drank cups of
water proffered by ordinary people along the way; he ate the fresh catch offered by
local fishermen; when he visited a university town he attended public lectures
along with the students; and when a religious procession passed him as he walked
in the streets, he fell to his knees among the crowd in shared reverence.Philip
always worked with his study door open, and ministers would sometimes panic
when they saw him ‘enter the patio of this building entirely alone’, unprotected
against attack. He, like Elizabeth, could proudly boast: ‘Let tyrants fear: I have
always so behaved myself, that under God I have placed my chiefest strength and
safeguard in the loyal hearts and goodwill of my subjects’.
On most occasions Philip dressed simply - indeed to some the king’s modest
attire made him look ‘just like a physician’ or even ‘just like the citizens’.
Although he was fastidious about personal cleanliness, he remained conservative
in taste: he had a new suit of clothes made every month, but the design and the
colour - black - remained the same, a perfect example of the ‘dignity through
understatement’ advocated in Castiglione’s influential Book of the Courtier}^ T\\2X
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 15
Plate 4 Philip II in 1587
by Alonso Sanchez Coello.
Portraits of Philip II in
later years normally showed
him dressed simply in
black, conveying his
majesty not through the
outward symbols of
kingship but through
dignity and ‘serenity’. His
only ornament here is the
insignia of the Order of the
Golden Fleece. Sanchez
Coello intended this
understated portrait of his
master, then aged sixty, to
go to Pope Sixtus V, but
Grand Duke Ferdinand of
Tuscany saw it and asked to
have it; the painter agreed,
but expressed the hope that
the recipient would use his
influence at the Roman
Curia to obtain a benefice
for his impecunious son.
is how he appears at the height of his power in the Alonso Sanchez Coello’s
portrait of 1587 (Plate 4). Nevertheless, Philip instilled instant respect in all who
met him. When she entered his presence one day in the 1570s, Teresa of Avila
‘began to speak to him totally agitated because he fixed his penetrating gaze on
me and seemed to see into my soul ... I told him what I wanted as quickly as I
could.’ When Venetian ambassador Leonardo Dona had an audience, he spent
hours beforehand ‘reading and re-reading more than ten times’ the letters and
instructions that he had received in case Philip should ask him a question. One of
the king’s earliest biographers confirmed that ‘Brave men who had withstood a
16 The Context of Strategic Culture
Plate 5 Philip II listens to Leonardo Dona at an audience, by Marco Vercellio. Dona became
Venetian ambassador in Spain in 1570, at the age of thirty-three, and served for over three years.
He eventually became doge (1606-12), which may explain why the portrait he commissioned
shows him towering over Philip at one of his numerous audiences. Philip, according to custom,
received the ambassador standing and appears to be listening attentively; Dona, who subsequently
wrote down the king’s every word, rarely received more than a non-committal sentence in reply.
thousand dangers trembled in his presence, and no one looked on him without
emotion.Everyone also remarked on his remarkable self-control: the same Dona,
when obliged in 1573 to tell the king in a public audience that Venice had
defected without warning from its Spanish alliance and made a separate peace
with the Turks, noted in amazement that he listened to the terms of the treaty
impassively — except that ‘his mouth made a very small, ironic movement,
smiling thinly’ (Plate 5). Most people likewise paid tribute to Philip’s intelligence.
Towards the end of his reign, even a critic admitted that ‘His
17
Majesty’s brain must be the largest in the world’; while just after his death, a court
preacher (who also noted that ‘with a sideways glance he sent some people to their
grave’) compared Philip’s wisdom with that of Solomon ‘so that if, in order to
become king, one had to enter a competition, as for a university chair . . . ours
would have won the professorship of the realm without difficulty and by a large
margin’.
All these examples, however, referred to Philip’s official ‘body’ which represented
his majesty and power to the world. Like all kings, Philip also possessed a
mortal body of flesh and blood. As the Valencian humanist (and royal councillor)
Fadrique Furio Ceriol wrote in 1559:
‘The Largest Brain in the World’
Every prince is made up, as it were, of two persons: the first, the natural person,
is fashioned by the hands of nature and as such is given the same essence as
other human beings. The other is a gift of fortune and the favour of heaven,
created to govern and protect the public good, for which reason we call it the
public person . . . Each and every prince may therefore be considered in two
distinct and different ways: as a man and as a sovereign.
Philip created a distinct institutional setting for each of his two ‘persons’. By the
1560s, thanks to the elaborate Burgundian etiquette of the Spanish Court, almost
1,500 persons attended on the king (about 800 in his household, over 200 in the
stables, more than 100 in the chapel and so on) while hundreds of other officials
manned the central organs of government: over 100 in the court’s special police
force (the Alcaldes de Casa y Corte); 79 in the council of Finance and its various
dependent bureaux, 53 in the council of Castile, 39 in the council of Aragon, 25
in the council of the Indies, and so on. Such a huge concentration of people — with
their families, servants and ancillary staff, they may have totalled 4,000 — could
scarcely travel around in the king’s wake, and so Philip decided to establish a fixed
centre for his government. He tried out both Valladolid and Toledo, but in June
1561 opted for Madrid because of its central location, its excellent water supply,
and its open situation which would enable both the palace and the city to expand
with minimal difficulty. And expand they did: the surviving registers for six
parishes of the city recorded 242 baptisms in 1560, but 410 in 1561 and 627 in
1562; by the end of the reign, Madrid had become (after Seville) the largest city
in Spain. Meanwhile, major building programmes in the 1560s and 1580s more
than doubled the size of the royal palace (Plate 6).^^
As Maria Jose Rodriguez-Salgado has perceptively noted, the king’s decision to
establish an elaborate Court in Madrid had, as its corollary, the creation of a
periphery of private retreats to which he could periodically escape and live more
informally. The king alternated between these two institutional settings. In the
spacious rooms on the upper floor of the Madrid palace, flanked by his magnificent
collections of tapestries, paintings and other trappings of Christian kingship, and
with his ministers toiling on the floor below.
Plate 6 The Royal Palace, Madrid, c. 1569, by Anton van den Wyngaerde. Philip made Madrid his capital in
1561 and immediately began to expand the royal palace (Alcazar). Work began almost at once on the ‘Torre
dorada’ (on the far left), with three high-windowed floors beneath a pointed slate roof in the Flemish style, and
on the new galleries to the right of the two original towers of the southern facade - constructed according to
plans amended by the king himself. (Van den Wyngaerde’s sketch shows building still in progress on the ‘Torre
de la Reina’ at the northeast corner of the complex.) The king enjoyed the views of the Manzanares valley from
the ‘Golden tower’, and from the rooms along the western facade, where he worked and held audiences while his
ministers toiled in their offices below.
He was easily accessible for formal and informal audiences. The king set aside
part of his day to see people and receive petitions. He made sure that those
without official business or regular access could approach him on his daily
walks to and from church. He communicated daily with his advisers and
councillors. His days were hectic, full of direct pressure, and he dealt with a
great diversity and quantity of business.^*
The truth of this emerges from an incident in 1577, while the king was in Madrid.
Philip’s private secretary asked if Juan Fernandez de Espinosa, one of the financiers
engaged in a crucial rescheduling of Spain’s debts, might call on him at 2 p.m.,
but the king protested:
Let him come at half past three, because it is already two o’clock, and I have no
time to see the queen and her children except right now. And impress upon
him that he will have to leave at four, because I have a lot of audiences then —
even though I have [already] held thirty today. And, in view of that, just look
at the back-log of papers I shall have!^^
Naturally, such a frenetic pace could not be sustained indefinitely and the king
regularly sought solace in one of his country palaces: Aranjuez, Valsam (near
Segovia), the Pardo and (above all) the Escorial. There, his life — and his style of
government — took on a totally different aspect. When the same Juan Fernandez
de Espinosa arrived at Aranjuez bearing a special licence from the council of
‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 19
Finance to discuss important business with the king, he received very different
treatment:
I do wish that Juan Fernandez had arranged the audience in Madrid, because he
could have had one there, even though I was busier ... I have brought so many
papers down here with me that if I start giving audiences I shall not be able to
think of reading any of them ... I need time and quiet, and with audiences
believe me I shall have neither.
The note concluded briskly: ‘I am replying to this now so that Juan Fernandez will
not be detained in the hope of an audience that I cannot give him.’^^
Philip’s desire to limit the number of meetings is easily explained. To begin
with, they could last a long time. Thus in September 1588 Jose de Acosta, SJ,
received an audience in order to present a lengthy paper on the problems faced by
the Jesuit Order in Spain. The king read each point, after which Acosta offered
clarification; sometimes the king asked questions (while speaking of the ‘secretary
of Father Borgia, the king interrupted and said “Which Father Borgia?” I said
“The one who was General of our Order”. “You mean Father Francis” said the
king; “Yes, sire. Father Francisco de Borgia, our General” ’). Acosta’s blow-byblow
account of the meeting filled four closely written sides of foolscap; it can
hardly have lasted less than an hour. Nevertheless at the end of it Philip took no
decision but announced that a particular minister would convey his views at a
later stage.^^
Audiences for ambassadors could take just as long and proved no more conclusive
— the king invariably agreed at the end only to ‘think about it’ — yet with up
to fourteen envoys resident at the Court, each constantly seeking the chance to put
the concerns of his principals to the king in person, small wonder that the king
sometimes complained that ambassadors’ visits had ‘made me waste the day’.^^
Yet diplomatic audiences could not be entirely avoided: most of them took place
because a foreign government instructed its representative to explain a particular
policy, to seek clarification of Spain’s intentions, or to protest against one of
Philip’s actions - and to do it in person. The king might procrastinate, but
eventually the ambassador had to be both seen and heard. Sometimes, indeed, the
occasion could be exploited in order to obtain or impart information. Thus on 31
October 1571 Ambassador Dona received a full description from Venice of the
victory of Lepanto three weeks before. He hurried to see the king, who happened
to be in his chapel, and told a courtier his business; Philip at once invited him to
sit in the same pew. ‘Straight after the incense’. Dona gave him the news, to which
the king listened attentively, and they then knelt side by side as the palace choir
sang the Te Deum ‘with the most beautiful harmony I ever heard’. Philip kept the
ambassador with him for the rest of the day in order to make sure of every detail.
Another use of audiences emerged a few days later when Ambassador Fourquevaux
of France came to complain about the conduct of his Spanish counterpart in Paris.
Philip listened attentively, but then began to grill Fourquevaux on some recent
20
rumours: was it true that Jeanne d’Albret, queen of Navarre, had set out from her
Court at Pau on a journey to Paris to meet with Charles IX? Was Louis of Nassau
(Orange’s brother) among her entourage? Fourquevaux had to answer both questions
affirmatively, and perhaps rashly ventured that several leading Huguenots
wanted to persuade the king of France to accept Louis into his service, since he was
a German prince who held no territory in Philip’s dominions. No doubt, Philip
replied, the leading Huguenots wanted Charles IX to do many foolish things, but
he reminded Fourquevaux that Louis had waged open war against him in the
Netherlands in 1568, with the clear implication that Charles should therefore
send him away.^^
Normally, however, Philip said virtually nothing at audiences — Dona, who
wrote down every word in his subsequent reports to the Doge and Senate of
Venice, seldom recorded more than one sentence (‘although, as usual, his words
were most gracious’) - but this taciturnity may have stemmed from the fact that
the king sometimes had difficulty in remembering what people said to him at
formal encounters. When turning down yet another request for a personal meeting
he confided one day to his secretary: ‘I can remember little from audiences -
although do not tell anyone that! I mean from most of them.’ Furthermore,
written requests gave him more time to consider the best response.Whenever
he could, therefore, the king preferred communications from others in writing.
When a prominent nobleman asked to see him, Philip replied: ‘If you were closer
to Court, it might be appropriate to hear the details from you in person, but
. . . since you can write securely [a letter} for my eyes alone, I think it would
be best if you did so’.^^ Shrewd ambassadors indulged the king’s preference.
Fourquevaux, for example, sometimes ignored commands from his master to seek
an audience with Philip, especially in summer: ‘I know that I would please him
more if I communicated with him by letter,’ he explained, because ‘he prefers
ambassadors to deal with him by letter rather than in person while he resides in
his country houses’.
Not everyone proved so tactful. Philip’s understandable desire to protect his
privacy equally understandably infuriated some of those who wanted to see him
but could not. It was all very well, lamented the nuncio (dean of the diplomatic
corps), for the king to insist on receiving requests for action in writing, provided
he then replied to them; but ‘It is rather irritating to have the king living so close
{at the Escorial}, and not occupied with anything important [!}, and yet for four
months I have been unable to secure an audience and I have received an answer
to none - or very few — of the memorials I have sent him in this time.’^^ Some
Spaniards shared the frustration. Traditionally, the culture of royal courts had
been largely oral and so transacting everything in writing seemed novel: ‘God did
not send Your Majesty and all the other kings to spend their time on earth so that
they could hide themselves away reading and writing, or even meditating and
praying,’ thundered Don Luis Manrique, the king’s almoner, and he proceeded
to criticize ‘the manner of transacting business adopted by Your Majesty, being
permanently seated at your papers ... in order to have a better reason to
The Context of Strategic Culture 21
escape from people’. According to another court critic, ‘it seems as if Your
Majesty’s efforts have gradually made him totally inaccessible and built a tower
without doors and windows, so that you cannot see other people and they cannot
. 29 see you.
The king nevertheless remained set in his ways, certain that he could transact
far more business on his own than in meetings with others. Thus in 1576, while
forwarding a pile of papers from Hernando de Avalos, a government auditor
appointed to introduce double-entry book-keeping into the Castilian treasury, the
king’s personal secretary cautiously suggested that
It might be of great benefit both to Your Majesty and his ministers, and to {the
dispatch of} business, to start listening to some {ministers in person} . . .
because in that way they could clarify anything Your Majesty doubted or did
not understand; and Your Majesty could still, in order to avoid an immediate
decision and to think about it more, ask them to put what they had said in
writing, and later reply to them in writing with your decision.
Philip dismissed this out of hand: ‘{Speaking} as one who has already almost 33
years of experience in handling public affairs, it would be a lot of work to listen
to them and then see them again to give a response — especially those like Avalos
who talk all the time.’^° A few years later, a courtier suggested that the king
should spend twice as long listening as he spent writing; while Cardinal
Granvelle, a minister with even more experience of government than the king
himself, regretted that Philip so seldom made use of the pomp of Burgundian
court ceremonial, ‘in order to be more respected by his subjects. But’, Granvelle
added wearily, ‘he has already made up his mind to live in seclusion so that, after
56 years, I have little hope of seeing any change’.
The criticism was unfair, however. Aranjuez, the Pardo and the Escorial may
have been ‘secluded’, and the king may have spent increasing amounts of time
there as the reign advanced, but they did not serve as vacation resorts where he
idled away his time in hunting, shooting and fishing (although he regularly
indulged in ail three). Rather they offered him the opportunity to govern (as he
said) in the way that experience had proved to be the most efficient. Jose de
Sigiienza, who saw the king at close quarters for the last two decades of his life,
claimed that he managed to transact four times as much business while he resided
at the Escorial; and an ambassador noted that although the king ‘spends most of
his time away from the Court, in part to escape from tiring audiences and in part
to take care of business matters better, he never stops reading and writing, even
when he travels in his coach’.
The majority of the papers that Philip dealt with came from the various councils
in Madrid whose number increased in the course of the reign from eleven to
fourteen (see Table i). The councils’ principal function was to discuss the
incoming letters and memoranda in a given area of responsibility and to
‘The Largest Brain in the World’
The councils of Philip II
(with the dates of their creation)
The King
Castile Inquisition Orders Crusade
(Consejo Real) (1480) (1483) (i495) (i5°9)
(Castile) Camara State Indies War Finance
(1518/1588) (1523-24) (1524) (1524) (1525)
Works
and
forests
(1545)
Aragon Portugal Flanders
(1481/1494) (1583) (1588)
(Aragon) Italy
(1555/1559)
Table i The conciliar system of government created by Charles V and his advisers in the 1520s served Philip
well. Despite the relentless expansion of the matters with which he and the central bureaucracy had to deal, he
found it necessary to create only three new institutions: the council of Italy in the 1550s and the councils of
Portugal and Flanders in the 1580s. Each organ, however, met for ever longer as the reign advanced, and the
quantity of paperwork generated increased alarmingly.
recommend what action, if any, the king should take: they never initiated policies.
Moreover, strict lines of demarcation defined their duties. Thus the council
of War considered and reported on letters concerning the crown’s armed forces,
both naval and military, within Spain; but the council of State, which possessed
exclusive responsibility for all Spain’s interests in Europe, whether diplomatic,
commercial or military, supervised the crown’s armed forces in the Netherlands
and Italy. Likewise, the council of the Indies dealt with military and naval affairs
in Spanish America, while after 1583 a new council reported directly to the king
concerning the defence of Portugal and its overseas possessions. Budgets for all
military operations underwent review by yet another organ, the council of
Finance.
Government ministers throughout the Monarchy received strict orders to send
their correspondence to the proper central institution. Thus at the beginning of
his reign the king instructed his viceroys in Italy to direct all matters relating to
‘administration, justice, the patrimony and revenues of our crown and treasury,
other routine affairs and also matters concerning individuals (such as pardons,
rewards, evaluations and the provision of offices)’ to the newly created council of
Italy, and matters of war or peace and relations with other rulers to the council of
State. In fact matters soon became more complicated: ministers abroad also
corresponded with the king from time to time via the councils of Finance, Aragon,
Castile, Orders and Inquisition. Indeed a memorandum composed by a member of
the central government in the 1570s on how to allocate incoming business
between the various councils contained no fewer than 326 categories, each with its
own administrative procedure. In the next decade Philip created two new councils
— Portugal and Flanders — and reformed a third (the Camara de Castilla, which
‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 23
handled patronage, judicial appeals and negotiations with the Cortes — or Parliament
— of the realm), creating even more administrative categories until in the
1590s attempts were made to simplify the system. Ministers in America, for
example, received orders to streamline their correspondence with the council of
the Indies, so that ‘Everything that you used to write in many letters, you will
now condense into four [categories}, according to their contents: administration,
justice, war and finance.
The king himself rarely attended council meetings: everyone noted as exceptional
his presence at the debates of the council of State in 1566 on the correct
policy to follow in the Netherlands.^^ Except for the council of Castile, which by
tradition attended on the king as a group once a week, Philip received the
recommendations of each body in a written report (known as a ‘consulta’) to which
he would write or dictate the appropriate response.The council secretary would
then draft a reply for the king’s approval, and send the final version for his
signature. Difficult or urgent issues considered by the council would be discussed
with either its secretary or its president in individual meetings (which might last
for two hours) or handled via ‘billetes’, the legion of memoranda that provide our
principal source on the king’s thoughts and decisions (Plate 7).’^
The council secretaries possessed great power. First, they dealt directly with
those who came to Court on council business — even ambassadors in the case of the
council of State (when Secretary of State Antonio Perez fell from power in 1579
the representatives of Genoa learned that no Italian political business could be
resolved until the king appointed his successor).Second, secretaries had orders to
highlight pressing affairs and refer them to the king for immediate attention: as
the king wrote to a council secretary in 1583, ‘Although I am busy, if the matter
is urgent and needs to be seen, send it to me here, even though it is in draft.’When
time was deemed to be of the essence, Philip even allowed a final version of an
order or letter to be submitted for his signature, along with the supporting
consulta.^^ Finally, council secretaries not only chose which letters and papers to
show to the king and which to summarize, they also determined when he would
see them. In May 1574, although the war in the Netherlands occupied almost all
of the king’s waking hours, his private secretary still forwarded a dossier with a
cover note that read: ‘Although I see how occupied you are with the Low
Countries, and that the crisis there leaves little time to deal with other things, I
thought I should bring to Your Majesty’s attention this letter from Don Diego de
Mendoza . . .’^°On occasion secretaries might also withhold letters addressed to
the king. Thus in 1576 Antonio Perez informed Don John of Austria (Philip’s
brother) that he had ‘resolved not to show to His Majesty’ a letter in which Don
John ‘spoke ill of the marquis of Mondejar [viceroy of Naples}, something
unworthy of the person who wrote it and of the person to whom he wrote’; and
three years later he informed the Spanish ambassador in Paris that ‘our master is
very pleased with your letters, and has seen all of them — I mean the ones that he
ought to see’."*Tn 1588 Perez’s successor, Don Juan de Idiaquez, likewise intercepted
and suppressed a letter addressed to the king by the duke of Medina
24 The Context of Strategic Culture
>4^ fU^
b^(Cei^ h!Wf^ ^ **^J^*^'
#^^OiJi»ii».
?
vw^
Jr IP O'
Plate 7 A ‘billete’. The internal memoranda of the Spanish government (known as ‘billetes’) left
a broad margin for the reply. This item, from spring 1588, shows the king and his secretary of
state trying to identify the places mentioned in a letter reporting that an English fleet lurked off
Brittany. Don Juan de Idiaquez (on the right) forwarded to the king the itinerary (‘Derrotero’ or
Rutter) printed in preparation for the voyage of the Armada from Lisbon to the Channel, noting
the location of ‘Conquet which is in Lower Brittany’, and confirming that he had also checked a
map of France in the ‘Teatro’ (the Theatrum orbis terrorum of Abraham Ortelius). In the left-hand
margin Philip replied that he had also checked two maps and the ‘Dertotero’ himself (where he
found one place name misspelled).
Sidonia, declining his appointment to command the Spanish Armada and expressing
serious doubts about the wisdom of the enterprise itself. ‘We did not dare to
show His Majesty what you have just written’, Idiaquez and his colleague Don
Cristobal de Moura announced, and went on to rebuff the duke for his pusilla‘
The Largest Brain in the World’ 25
nimity: ‘Do not depress us with fears for the fate of the Armada, because in such
a [just} cause God will make sure it succeeds.
Other defects marred the conciliar system. For example, some councillors used
their position in order to favour or discredit other ministers, especially those
serving abroad. In the 1560s two factions developed, one centred around Ruy
Gomez de Silva, the king’s groom of the Stole {sumiller de corps) whom court
protocol required never to let the king out of his sight, the other around the duke
of Alba, the head of the royal household.Each man tried to gain the king’s
support for his candidates and policies at the expense of the other, causing all
ministers to tread carefully. Thus in 1565 the duke of Alba refused to share his
views on the correct policy to be followed in the Netherlands with Ruy Gomez,
although both men served on the council of State, and the secretary of the council
told the king that ‘I do not know whether he will even tell me’.Ten years later
Don Luis de Requesens, governor-general of the Netherlands (the most powerful
overseas executive position in the Monarchy), worried about maintaining his
credit at Court. To this end he began to write directly to the king so that
criticisms of the policies of his predecessor, the duke of Alba, would not be seen
by the council of State (on which Alba sat);^^ and he devoted considerable time to
analysing whether his conduct might offend any prominent courtier, who would
then criticize his policies and thus jeopardize their outcome (and his standing
with the monarch).A few years later, the unpopularity of Antonio Perez became
so great that one colleague, Mateo Vazquez (the king’s private secretary and
chaplain), left the Court and another, Gabriel de Zayas (also a cleric and Perez’s
predecessor as secretary of state, subsequently demoted to secretary of the council
of Italy), refused to speak with him when they met in the palace. The impasse only
ended with Perez’s dismissal.^^^ Even given harmonious relations between ministers,
so many persons reported directly and separately to the king that confusion
could easily arise. According to one adviser, in 1565:
His Majesty makes mistakes, and will continue to make mistakes, in many
matters because he handles them with different people, sometimes with one, at
other times with another, concealing something from one minister but revealing
other things. It is therefore small wonder that different and even contradictory
orders are issued ... It cannot fail to cause grave problems for the conduct
of business and many inconveniences.
In the course of his reign Philip introduced certain procedures to deal with
these various defects. Eirst, a number of key advisers served on several councils -
a position on both State and War, or on Indies and Einance, was common; a seat
on State, War and Finance was not unknown — so that they knew what was
happening in other advisory bodies and could, at least in theory, help to coordinate
affairs. For example Francisco de Erasso, who had served the Spanish
Habsburgs for thirty years, had by 1559 become the secretary of no fewer than six
councils and a member of two more. Such overlaps served a useful purpose
26
because, otherwise, the councils operated almost entirely in the dark: each body
dealt directly with the king, without knowing what other organs might be doing.
Thus, in the felicitous formulation of a modern historian, ‘The council of Finance
had no idea where the money was going, nor the council of War when it was
, 49 coming .
As the volume of incoming papers began to rise, however, the pressure on
individuals holding many posts, like Erasso, became intolerable and so Philip
introduced another administrative innovation. Between 1566 and 1572 Cardinal
Diego de Espinosa, president of the council of Castile and Inquisitor-General,
became an ‘alter ego’ - in the words of Ambassador Fourquevaux, ‘another king
in this Court’ - and courtiers advised their friends abroad to run everything of
importance past Espinosa because ‘he is the man in all Spain in whom the king
places most confidence and with whom he discusses most business, concerning
both Spain and foreign affairs’. The cardinal did not sit on many councils,
however: instead he kept abreast of business through a series of informal committees,
known as ‘juntas’. Thus in 1571, following the conclusion of the ‘Holy
League’ with Venice and the Papacy against the Turks, a ‘committee of two’ (one
of them Espinosa) reviewed all reports arriving from Italy and recommended
appropriate actions in the naval campaign that culminated in the battle of
Lepanto. When Espinosa died, ministers speculated on who would succeed to ‘the
superintendence of matters of war, state and finance, the handling of consultas and
all the rest of the burden [of business] which the cardinal carried’.^” The king,
however, decided not to delegate the same degree of power to anyone else. ‘I
believed that it was right to entrust many matters which concerned my royal office
to the cardinal’, he informed Espinosa’s successor as president of the council of
Castile. ‘And perhaps good reasons existed for it then. But experience has shown
that it was not a good thing; and although it meant more leisure and less work for
me, I do not think it should be allowed to continue.
Instead of an ‘alter ego’ or Favourite - the system that his son and grandson
would later adopt - Philip chose to work after 1572 with a ‘chief of staff’:
Espinosa’s senior clerk, Mateo Vazquez, almost immediately became the king’s
private secretary and, for most of the period until 15855 played a leading role in
deciding what matters should be handled by the juntas - for that part of
Espinosa’s system survived him — and who should serve on them. He also often
acted as their secretary and arranged both their timetable and their agenda.^^ In
addition, Vazquez handled the king’s extensive ‘private’ correspondence. Vazquez
sometimes received orders to drop everything and read important incoming
papers at once - ‘Look at these while I eat and take a siesta, and send them to me
for when I awake, so I can see them and decide what to do about them’ — because
almost from the beginning of his reign Philip allowed his ministers, whether at
Court or abroad, to write to him directly if they had a problem that they deemed
confidential, in effect short-circuiting the entire central bureaucracy.” He told
them: ‘You may also put on the envelope “to be placed in the king’s hands”,
because I have ordered that such letters should be brought to me sealed so that.
The Context of Strategic Culture
when I have seen the contents, I can arrange what is most convenient for my
.54
service.
Inevitably some ministers abused the system but they did not do so for long.
Thus in 1574 the king sharply rebuked the governor of Milan:
I told you [when I appointed you] what you might write ‘to be placed in the
king’s hands’, and it applied only to what I said in that letter. These matters
should not be confused with those to be handled by the councils, which could
reply to you better, confining yourself in letters ‘to be placed in the king’s
hands’ solely to details that could better inform me, and which you can see
should not be known to others.
A decade later the king lost his temper with another minister who insisted on
referring too much to him directly: ‘Sending letters “to be placed in the king’s
hands” is a terrible thing, because I often lack the time even to open them. In fact
it only serves to slow business down, because I have had these two letters for days
but have only been able to open them now.’ ^Nevertheless when in the following
year a senior minister suggested discontinuing the practice, the king refused: it
played a vital role in preventing any attempt by senior advisers to manipulate his
access to information.^^
The king was prepared to read almost anything that came across his desk,
whether or not he had asked for it, and some unsolicited information and advice
- often from people (especially clerics) not directly involved in government —
clearly influenced his subsequent decisions. Perhaps the most spectacular example
occurred in 1586, when Bernardino de Escalante, a priest and inquisitor, sent in
a detailed plan (complete with map) for the overthrow of Elizabeth Tudor that
later became the blueprint for the entire ‘Enterprise of England’ (see p. 186 and
Plate 25 below).” The king showed special concern that his subjects in the
Americas should be able to write to him whenever they chose, ‘so that we can
receive [their letters] and be informed of what they wish to tell us’, and he
repeatedly threatened that any official who attempted to withhold or divert a
letter addressed to the king would be severely punished.The success of
Geronimo de Mendieta, a Franciscan residing in Puebla (Mexico), in getting a
dossier concerning the rights of native Americans to the king’s desk in 1588
testifies to the king’s sincerity in this matter. Mendieta sent his information by a
special courier, who delivered it (via the commissary-general of the Order in
Madrid) directly to Mateo Vazquez, because ‘the archive of the council of the
Indies is full of treatises and writings in favour of the poor Indians’ which
(Mendieta feared) the king never saw. Philip duly studied the dossier and asked to
see the cleric who had brought it from Mexico. At an audience two days later the
messenger, Jose de Acosta, provided interesting information about the Americas
which the king ordered Vazquez to follow up.”
This and Philip’s other attempts at ‘open government’ certainly helped to
counter the fragmentation of his administrative system and to provide some
‘The Largest Brain in the World’ i~i
28
independence from his administrative staff, but only at the cost of creating a
torrent of papers with which he had to deal in person. In 1559, even before he
returned to Spain, the French ambassador at his Court commented that Philip
seemed ‘well versed in his affairs and does not waste an hour, spending the whole
day long on his papers’; and for the rest of his reign the king read and commented
on countless incoming letters, consultas, petitions and memoranda.The quantity
in each category increased steadily throughout the reign. Thus the council of
War, which produced scarcely two bundles of working papers a year in the 1560s,
turned out over thirty a year in the 1590s - a fifteen-fold increase - while every
year the council’s secretaries prepared nearly 2,000 letters on military and naval
business. The output of other bodies increased at a similar pace: the council of
Finance, which met only twice a week in the 1550s, by 1580 transacted business
every morning for three or four hours and sometimes continued into the afternoons;
while the council of the Indies, instead of just meeting for three hours
every morning, from 1571 began to meet three afternoons a week as well.^^ Every
day piles of consultas came to Philip’s desk from his various councils and he had
to decide in person how to deal with each item. He also received seemingly endless
petitions. In the month of March 1571, for example, over 1,250 individual
petitions, an average of over 40 a day, arrived for the king’s consideration; and
between August 1583 and December 1584 some 16,000 petitions crossed
his desk - an average of i ,000 a month, still over 30 a day.^^ In addition, the
king read, and if necessary emended, the text of outgoing letters; and, at least
until the 1570s, he seems to have signed in person every order, however minor,
issued in his name.^^ On one occasion he informed his private secretary: ‘I did not
call you in today so that I could get through my paperwork - the least of which
was to sign some 400 signatures’.^"^ By the 1580s, according to the Venetian
ambassador:
I am reliably informed by someone who frequents his private apartments that
he is never idle, for besides his desire to read himself all the incoming and
outgoing correspondence of all areas, and from all the ambassadors and ministers
of his vast dominions . . . , and besides the many prayers which he says,
he writes every day with his own hand more than a ream of letters, between
billetes, consultas and orders, which he constantly sends to his councillors,
judges, secretaries and ministers in this way, and countless other secret business
that he handles with other individuals. It is hardly to be believed how much
time he spends in signing letters, licences, patents and other affairs of grace and
justice: on some days it amounts to 2,000 {items}.
By this time, the king in fact dictated many of his decisions on consultas (often
to Mateo Vazquez), adding only his initials, and he used a stamp to sign routine
correspondence. In 1594 he began to allow his son and heir to sign orders for him,
and after 1597 he rarely put pen to paper. For most of his reign, however, in the
words of an English spy, writing formed Philip’s ‘common occupation, and
The Context of Strategic Culture 29
thereby he dispatcheth more than any three secretaries; and in this manner with
his pen and purse governeth the world’.
Governing the world with his pen took a heavy toll. ‘I have 100,000 papers in
front of me . . .’, one frenetic note to a secretary began, while another ran: ‘So far
I have not been able to get free of these devils, my papers, and I still have some
to deal with tonight; and I shall even take some to read in the countryside, which
is where we are going right now.At times, the pressure of work drove him to
despair. One night in 1578 he complained:
I have just been given this other packet of papers from you, but I have neither
the time nor the strength to look at it. I will not open it until tomorrow. It is
already after ten o’clock and I have not yet had dinner. My table is full of papers
for tomorrow because I cannot cope with any more today.
Later that same year he lamented that so many ‘matters have come up that cannot
be neglected, I do not believe that any human resources would suffice to deal with
them all - especially not mine, which are very weak and getting weaker every day
with all the things that have to be done’.A few years later he faced so many
decisions that his temper got the better of him:
Some things are going to have to wait, because everything cannot be done at
once. Try and do something to hold them up because I cannot take any more.
Anyone who looks at how I spent today will see that just two men detained me
for more than two hours and left me with more papers than I can manage in
many more {hours}. So I am shattered: God give me strength and patience.
The dossiers nevertheless continued to arrive and repeatedly kept Philip from his
dinner (normally served at nine o’clock):
It is ten o’clock and I have neither eaten nor lifted my head all day — as you can
see by the size of the dossier addressed to Zayas {joint secretary of state}. So you
should send the package from Hernando de Vega {president of the council of
the Indies} back to me tomorrow . . . because {just now} my eyes and head
cannot take any more.^^
Long before the typewriter, the Xerox machine and the word-processor, Philip
was drowning in a sea of paper, and as the reign advanced he tried on various lifejackets.
In the 1560s he instructed his secretaries to make a precis of long letters
— even from his beleaguered lieutenants in the Netherlands — because he could not
find time to read them in full. By the 1570s he received as a matter of routine a
summary of the main points of each letter so he could see at a glance whether he
wanted to read it. Since the burden of paperwork still increased, however, the
pressure on the king continued to grow: ‘I have never seen so many papers mount
up as now,’ he complained in 1584.^^ The following year, therefore, he began to
‘The Largest Brain in the World’
30
rely upon a small permanent ‘steering committee’ of senior ministers to review -
and above all to condense - the dossiers that required his consideration: at first the
Junta de Noche (the ‘Committee of the Night’, with Vazquez as secretary), then
from 1588 the Junta de Gobierno (the ‘Government Committee’) and later the
Junta Grande (the ‘Big Committee’). In essence, these bodies received consultas
from all the councils (except the council of State) and prepared a brief summary,
together with recommendations, so that the king could immediately see the
problem, the council’s proposed solution, and his senior advisers’ suggestions for
action. Those who wrote directly to the king were now urged to ‘use as few words
as possible’ because he no longer ‘dared to look’ at long papers.^”
Philip still insisted on taking all decisions in person. According to the French
ambassador in 1588: ‘The king is as assiduous and all public affairs pass through
his hands, without him trusting or delegating to anyone - as if he were still forty
years old.’ He worked with two illuminated clocks ‘day and night always before
his eyes’ and ‘he lived with such regularity and precision that his daily actions and
occupations were counted and determined by minutes’. The pressure nevertheless
remained relentless. One day in 1587 the king lamented that while he had been
working on one dossier his valets had brought in ‘ten or twelve more’, and in the
course of four days in 1596 the Junta Grande forwarded to the king no fewer than
fifty-five consultas, each one requiring numerous decisions.^^ Even in August
1598, the last month of his life, the king reserved some important decisions for his
personal attention and, given his utter prostration, serious delays resulted: immediately
after his death, his son ordered all councils to resolve forthwith the
mountain of petitions from individuals which had gone unanswered because of the
late king’s ‘continuous ailments and other infirmities’.^^
The balance of evidence nevertheless suggests that, throughout his reign,
Philip II managed to devote immediate attention to really important items. Thus
in May 1586, as he struggled to deal with the havoc wrought by Drake’s raid in
the Caribbean, the king ordered Vazquez to make sure that he saw only papers
about defence issues ‘rather than about individuals, unless it is something urgent’.
In June 1588, preoccupied with getting the Armada to sea against England, he
commanded the council of Finance to discuss ways of finding the necessary funds,
and ‘to deal with nothing else, and to meet for no other purpose’; and he ordered
his other ministers in Madrid to ‘moderate their dispatch of papers for some days’.
If this did not happen, Vazquez should delay all incoming mail ‘until we have
been able to get on top of these other matters which are so important’.The
‘priority mail’ system sometimes created its own problems: later that same year
the king’s spirits sagged when he received a package of papers by express messenger.
‘These urgent dispatches destroy me’, he sighed, ‘because they stop me
from doing the things I had planned to deal with today.’ Nonetheless, he handled
the pressing issues at once, putting his other files to one side.^’^
Many of the king’s servants remained unsympathetic. Scarcely had Philip come
to the throne than his cousin and principal military commander, Emmanuel
Philibert of Savoy, complained that the king tried to do too much in person; and
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 31
in 1571 Don Diego de Cordoba, a prominent member of the king’s entourage,
regretted that life at Court had degenerated into ‘papers and more papers, and the
number grows every day’ because the king ‘writes memoranda every hour,
and even when he is getting up, eating or retiring his [valets} come in with
papers . . . that, in the end, do not amount to anything’. Three years later, Don
Diego commented that ‘His Majesty has been working in recent days even more
than usual in reading and writing papers, until they come out of his backside (may
Your Lordship forgive me). . . because on Saturday morning at 3 o’clock he had
terrible diarrhoea’; and when in 1575 rumours spread that the king might lead an
expedition to Algiers in person, Cordoba fervently hoped he would go, ‘so that for
a while he would stop working with so many papers. Certainly it is sad to see what
he is doing to himself’.
So why did he do it? Philip’s administrative style — with its insistence on keeping
the central government compartmentalized, on transacting everything in writing
and on reserving so many matters for his own scrutiny — has drawn much criticism
from historians as well as from contemporaries. Those with direct experience of
governing might be less harsh; indeed, many other statesmen have adopted
similar practices. To take two twentieth-century examples, in the 1930s President
Franklin D. Roosevelt deliberately created overlapping organs of government and
divided authority among them, often entrusting them to men of clashing temperaments
in order to ensure both that his subordinates would always turn to him
for decisions and that he got advance notice of the choices that had to be made. As
in Philip’s case, this created enormous pressures on the chief executive. Thus
Roosevelt’s decision to establish two separate agencies to handle new public works
policies meant that he had to deal with all competing claims, and between 1935
and 1938 ‘something like a quarter of a million individual projects — ranging
from suspension bridges to sewing circles — passed . . . across the President’s
overcrowded desk’. In 1944, when forty-seven war agencies reported directly
to him, Roosevelt once exclaimed: ‘The details of this job are killing me’; but
he was prepared to pay that price in order to retain the power to make the
decisions that mattered to him.^^ Likewise, when Winston Churchill became
British prime minister and minister of defence in 1940 he introduced several
administrative procedures that resembled those of Philip II. On the one hand, he
transacted as much business as possible in writing and ‘spent very little time
interviewing people . . . [A}11 had to address him in writing, and his replies or
instructions came back in writing’. ' At an early stage Churchill informed the
War Cabinet:
Let it be very clearly understood that all directions emanating from me are
made in writing, or should be immediately afterwards confirmed in writing,
and that I do not accept any responsibility for matters relating to national
defence on which I am alleged to have given decisions unless they are recorded
in writing.
3 2 The Context of Strategic Culture
These ‘directions’ covered far more than national defence. In the words of a close
collaborator:
The stream of messages, covering so wide a range of subjects, was like the beam
of a searchlight ceaselessly swinging round and penetrating into the remote
recesses of the administration so that everyone, however humble his range or
function, felt that one day the beam might rest on him and light up what he
was doing. In Whitehall the effect of this influence was immediate and dramatic.
The machine responded at once to his leadership.
Admittedly some of Churchill’s concerns seemed trivial (‘Could trophies taken in
the First World War be reconditioned for use? . . . What was to be done with the
animals in the [London} Zoo in the event of bombardment?’) and although
‘nobody complained that he neglected the vital for the insignificant, as with
Philip II ‘there were those who lamented his preoccupation with detail in matters
great as well as small’.
The king’s constant ‘preoccupation with detail’ stemmed not only from a desire
to retain control over decisions, but also from a deep suspicion that his ministers
would attempt either to deceive him or to withhold unwelcome information.
Ambassador Dona of Venice warned his masters that ‘by nature, [the king} is both
very prudent and very suspicious’, and in his ‘Relation’ to the Senate at the end of
his embassy in 1573 he repeated that Philip never entirely trusted anyone: ‘They
say that the king suffers from the same malady as his father: that is, suspicion.
Likewise, Cristobal Perez de Herrera (who had known the king well) claimed
shortly after the king’s death that Philip ‘was a great friend of secrecy’. Even the
adulatory biography of Lorenzo van der Hammen - one of the first to be published
in Spain - admitted that ‘suspicion, disbelief and doubt formed the basis of his
prudence’.
Once again, many later statesmen have been praised for showing a healthy
distrust of their subordinates; others have made serious blunders because they did
not. An influential and well-informed study of recent occupants of the White
House states that ‘Presidents are always being told that they should leave details
to others. It is dubious advice.’ Rather,
To help himself he must reach out as widely as he can for every scrap of fact,
opinion, gossip, bearing on his interests and relationships as President. He
must become his own director of his own central intelligence . . . [0}n the one
hand, he can never assume that anyone or any system will supply the bits and
pieces he needs most; on the other hand, he must assume that much of what he
needs will not be volunteered by his official advisers.^*’
In Philip’s case, suspicion and secrecy seemed to become ends in themselves. This
tendency emerged with particular clarity in the king’s voluminous correspondence
with Mateo Vazquez: ‘You and I must be like confessors,’ he told Vazquez on
‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 33
one occasion, and the ‘arch-secretary’ frequently received orders to transcribe
documents — even intercepted items not addressed to the king — ‘so that no one
knows’, or to engage in a secret correspondence with one councillor about the
conduct of another.Philip once told Vazquez mysteriously that a matter ‘should
be handled with much secrecy and dissimulation, so that not only will what is
under discussion not be known, but not even that anything is being discussed’.
‘Secrecy and dissimulation’ indeed formed one of the commonest expressions
in the king’s vocabulary, and many people found it frustrating. According to
Ambassador Fourquevaux:
He is not a prince who says what is in his heart; rather, he is one of the greatest
dissimulators in the world. I can certainly say — because his own ministers say
it — that he knows how to pretend and conceal his intentions better than any
king ... up to the time and the hour at which it suits him to let them be
known.®^
Philip also suspected that his officials, if not subjected to ceaseless supervision,
might either embezzle money or in other ways abuse their power. Spain already
possessed two standard procedures to ensure administrative probity. On the one
hand, ail executive officers had to submit as a matter of routine to a period of
scrutiny, known as a residencia, immediately after their turn of duty: during this
public process, which lasted up to two months, anyone could press charges and the
judge (normally the official’s successor) was obliged to investigate each one. On
the other hand, whenever the crown suspected malfeasance, it established a more
systematic and searching review carried out in secret: the visita. A viceroy once
compared visitas with ‘the little dust storms that commonly blow up in the
squares and the streets, with no other result than to raise the dirt, straw and other
refuse there, and let it fall down again on the heads of the people’, but he
exaggerated: the procedure — or just the threat of one, for a visita could be created
without warning at any time — undoubtedly helped to deter and discover corruption,
inefficiency and oppression.The crown exported both processes from Spain
to the Americas (where over sixty visitas generales of various institutions in the
colonies took place between 1524 and 1700), to Spanish Italy (Philip ordered a
visita general for the administration of the duchy of Milan in 1559 and again in
1581, both lasting for several years) and to the Netherlands (where the entire
Spanish administration underwent a searching scrutiny between 1594 and
1602)."'
These techniques served to maintain relatively high standards among royal
officials in the far corners of the empire. The king also made efforts to ascertain (or
at least to insinuate that he had ascertained) detailed information even on his
ministers at Court. According to a papal diplomat, Philip ‘was so well informed
and advised, not only of every detail concerning his royal household but of what
goes on in his whole Court and his various dominions, that it is amazing. He
even knows what every minister here eats, and how he spends his time.More
34 +
Plate 8 Philip II corrects his
paperwork. In October 1576 a
routine order to reimburse i ,000
escudos to an official for out-ofpocket
expenses came across the
king’s desk. Philip affixed his
‘stamp’ (a new device to save him
having to sign every document
himself) but then noted that the
reason for the payment had been
omitted. He therefore crossed out
his signature and wrote out the
phrase to be added. Since several
hundred documents like this could
require the king’s approbation in
the course of a day; it seems
remarkable that he had time to spot
and correct such errors and
ambiguities.
'-^■~:h>^ ^____
/p'Sn .^C'V^ Cf
^4
important, thanks to his insistence on reviewing everything himself, officials
could never be sure what the royal eye might spot, and so no doubt they exercised
caution both in carrying out the king’s commands and in feathering their own
nest^s .87
Philip regarded very few matters as lying beyond his own personal competence.
One of them concerned the law: thus when in 1587 a secretary asked what steps
should be taken to deal with the apocalyptic preaching of Miguel de Piedrola, a
Madrid ‘plaza prophet’, the king snapped back: ‘Since I am not a lawyer, I do not
know what to say about such things’.*^ On other occasions he claimed that he
could not make sense of either the calligraphy or the language of a document, and
so could not make a decision (although he usually asked his ministers to remedy
these defects so that he could handle the matter in person later on).^^ Philip
intervened personally in virtually every aspect of government. He spent hours
clarifying — or trying to clarify — the documents he read, both incoming and
outgoing. He sometimes crossed out a neatly written order prepared for his
signature because he had spotted some ambiguity or inaccuracy, with the curt,
schoolmasterly phrase ‘Do it again {Buelbase a hazer]’ (Plate 8); at other times he
Plate 9 Philip II gives up trying to correct the ‘Proclamation on etiquette’. Philip spent a great deal of time
preparing the Pragmdtica de las cortesias issued in 1586, which reduced the elaborate styles of address that had
arisen in Spain. This page shows one of the final drafts, but still the king remained dissatisfied. He tried to
amend clause 18, on how to address members of religious Orders, but thought better of it; then he moved to
clause 20, on who could put a coronet above the coat of arms on their seals. First his private secretary Mateo
Vazquez added some corrections (lower left), then the king crossed out both original and emendations and
entirely redrafted it (lower right) — only to stumble over the syntax.
corrected errors in the letters he received, or annotated the final version of
outgoing dispatches.In 1585—86 he meddled extensively with at least six drafts
of the ‘Proclamation on etiquette’, which, among other things, reduced his own
titles from ‘Sacred Catholic Royal Majesty’ to ‘Sire’, until eventually even he was
at a loss for words. In the clause that determined the weighty issue of who should
have the right to place coronets on their seals, a clause that he had already drafted
and redrafted several times, he finally gave up on the syntax and told his secretary:
‘Put whatever seems best — “para” or “por” — because I cannot decide’ (Plate 9).^^
He also insisted on deciding for himself a host of other apparently inconsequential
matters: the disposition of church benefices (such as those vacated by the death of
Cardinal Granvelle); matters of palace etiquette (who should be allowed to
enter which room; who should travel in which coach; how he should be greeted
on official visits) and architecture (what each room in the various royal palaces
should be used for); and who should serve in his household (even down to who
36 The Context of Strategic Culture
should be chosen as cook for his children’s kitchen, a post which could attract up
to twenty applicants).
Perhaps the king’s obsessive concern with these specific issues of ecclesiastical
patronage, court precedence, protocol, lodgings and personnel, can be explained
by their intrinsic sensitivity — the ‘Proclamation on etiquette’, for example,
provoked outrage among both courtiers and ambassadors when it was published,
and the pope threatened to excommunicate the king and put his proclamation on
the Index.Furthermore, contemporaries still expected their kings to attend to
all business of state in person, just as they had always done. Once the amount of
business to transact increased ten- or fifteen-fold, however, this assumption
became unrealistic. ‘We write and send couriers so much that I do not know how
we have time to do anything else’, as one of the king’s frustrated secretaries put
it.^"* Admittedly this transition affected all early modern European rulers —
Elizabeth’s ministers also complained about their mounting workload (p. 226
below) — but Philip exacerbated the problem through his incorrigible urge to
meddle. His ministers often tried to bridle their master’s enthusiasm to know and
do everything. ‘I am sorry to fatigue Your Majesty with such trifling matters . . .’,
one ventured in 1562, but to no avail: ‘They do not fatigue me, they delight me!’
the king replied. Philip sometimes seems to have put pen to paper just for the sake
of it. One day in 1565, having already written twice to one of his secretaries, he
suddenly thought of something else: ‘In both of the notes that I sent to you today
I wanted to say something that I will tell you now, but I kept on forgetting,
although I had it on the tip of my tongue \teniendolo en el pico de la lengud\’ And
what was this urgent piece of information? That he had decided not to send a copy
of the trilingual edition of the Bible to the Escorial, because the library there
already had one. Two years later he laboriously encrypted a lengthy letter himself
because he did not trust anyone else to do it, and on another occasion he
transcribed in person parts of two letters received from an agent in England so
that only the extract, not the entire document, could be forwarded to a minister.
Late one night, Philip began a long note to Mateo Vazquez to say that: ‘I still have
some things to do, and I am very tired, so I do not think I will see you tonight.
But let me tell you some things now . . .’ Three and a half holograph pages
folio wed. The king could spend an entire paragraph speculating whether a word
might be missing from a letter of instruction; he might labour to improve the
translation of a report written in French; and he once scribbled an entire page to
his secretary smugly drawing attention to his alertness when he spotted a ‘remarkable
error’ in a recent papal brief (the cover page claimed it referred to one thing
but the document itself dealt with quite another).
The king believed that he always knew his business better than anyone else. In
July 1559, when he came under intense pressure from his Netherlands advisers to
stay in Brussels, and from his Spanish councillors to return, Philip angrily rejected
a new paper of advice and ordered: ‘This letter will not be seen by the council:
show it to nobody ... I only want to do what I know is best for me — which is to
‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 37
go [back to Spain] — without going around to seek the advice of anyone.’ Twenty
years later, when a minister proposed that the council of State be consulted about
a crucial move to end the Dutch Revolt, ‘His Majesty said no, because these were
matters which they [the councillors] would not understand because they had no
information about the Netherlands ... So it would be best to take the decision
first and then tell the council.
The attractions of creating a system of government that resembled a
‘panopticon’, in which only the person at the centre can see everything, are
obvious; but so are the dangers. Modern theories of corporate organization emphasize
the need for the chief executive officer to possess two key qualities: a clear
vision and the ability to delegate. First and foremost, all corporate leaders must
define clear objectives for their enterprise, develop a plan for achieving those
objectives, and then systematically monitor progress against the plan, adjusting it
to circumstances as necessary. Corporate leaders must therefore ask the ‘open
questions’ — what, when and why — and visualize how the enterprise should evolve
over the next few years. In addition, however, they must choose and coach
subordinates to realize these goals, and then delegate to these men and women the
task of achieving them. Corporate success depends upon granting a broad measure
of autonomy to the leaders chosen and trained by the CEO. Under no circumstances
should he or she try to micromanage. Policy and operations must be kept
entirely separate: leaders set goals and give directions while managers implement
them and generally encourage efficiency. The worst form of corporate organization,
according to modern theory, is the ‘crisis management’ model, in which the
CEO attempts to do everything in a dictatorial and secretive manner, reduces
employees at all levels to simple functionaries and then, overwhelmed by such a
burden of responsibility, restricts the goals of the organization to the negative aim
of coping with each successive challenge and trying to avoid mistakes — sometimes
termed a ‘zero-defects mentality’. Unfortunately for his monarchy, this
became the precise style of leadership adopted by Philip II at various critical
junctures during his reign.
Admittedly the pattern was not uniform. The king almost always had a clear
idea of the objectives for which he strove — justice, the good of his vassals, and the
advancement of God’s cause and his own (see Chapter 3 below) — and often
sponsored impressive efforts of rationalization and planning to help achieve them.
Thus in 1568 he initiated simultaneous measures to overhaul and simplify the
legal system of both the Netherlands and the Americas (p. 9 above) and the
following year, with his permission and support, a massive work entitled The laws
of the realm (Leyes del reyno, later known as the Nueva Recopilacion) published all the
laws in force in Castile, plus some 300 royal proclamations. It remained the
standard legal code in all royal courts until 1805. In 1582, just after his coronation
as king of Portugal, Philip commissioned a similar codification of all the laws
in force: The Philippine Ordinances {Ordenagoes Philipinas) went to the printers in
1593 and remained in force for half a century.
Throughout his reign, Philip also excelled in selecting capable subordinates to
38 The Context of Strategic Culture
carry out his strategic plans. The difficulty of this part of CEO’s duties is often
underestimated, for someone who succeeds at one level of command may prove
incompetent at another, and often the only way for a leader to discover the
abilities and weaknesses of individual personnel is to try them out in new
tasks. Philip normally entrusted his fleets to men who had made war their
profession: Don Garcia de Toledo, who commanded the successful relief of Malta
(1565), had led galley squadrons since 1535 and held several important land
commands; Pedro Menendez de Aviles had commanded amphibious expeditions
to the Netherlands, convoys sailing between Spain and the Caribbean, and the
Florida expedition (1565—66), before being appointed to lead the king’s Atlantic
fleet in 1574; and Don Alvaro de Bazan (later marquis of Santa Cruz and, from
1584, captain-general of the Atlantic Fleet) had led a galley squadron in many
Mediterranean campaigns (including Lepanto) and masterminded the naval side
of the conquest of Portugal (1580) before taking charge of the victorious combined
operations to the Azores (1582) and Terceira (1583). Even the duke of
Medina Sidonia, the king’s controversial choice to succeed Santa Cruz as commander
of the Armada, had spent most of his adult life helping to prepare the
dispatch of the annual Indies fleet from Andalusia, and in 1587 had responded
vigorously and prudently to Drake’s raid on Cadiz. (In at least one regard the
king’s choice proved inspired: Medina arrived in Lisbon in March 1588 to find the
Armada in chaos, yet he managed to lead it to sea just two months later.)^°°
The same willingness to recognize and reward talent wherever he saw it marked
Philip’s military appointments. Although the duke of Alba could boast grandee
status, he had been personally groomed for high command by Charles V: he was
a professional soldier to his fingertips. Most of the king’s other commanders
likewise possessed extensive military experience, especially those trained by Alba
in Italy and the Netherlands, and most of the exceptions were blood relatives
whom the king evidently assumed would automatically excel in military and
naval command.^ ^ Thus Philip’s half-brother, Don John of Austria, had never
seen war on either land or sea when the king appointed him captain-general of the
Mediterranean fleet (1568 and 1571—76) and of the forces raised to suppress the
revolt of the Alpujarras (1569—71). In 1577 Philip justified sending his nephew,
Alexander Farnese prince of Parma, to assist Don John as commander-in-chief in
the Netherlands despite the opposition of the council of State in Madrid on two
grounds: ‘because my brother insists on it so much, and because I believe he can
be of service, judging by what I have heard of his person up to now’. When Don
John died, the king immediately appointed Parma — who had fought at Lepanto
and elsewhere — to succeed him.^*^^ As commanders, both men triumphantly
vindicated the king’s expectations (although Philip had taken care to surround
them with expert advisers). Moreover Philip showed admirable fidelity towards
those to whom he had entrusted his armed forces. Although he recalled Alba from
the Netherlands in 1573 when he lost confidence in the duke’s ability to end the
Dutch Revolt, he resisted pressure to impose some punishment for the ‘excesses’
alleged against his regime in Brussels; and although many blamed both Parma
‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 39
and Medina Sidonia for the Armada’s failure, the king was not amongst them (see
pp. 229-32 below).
Philip also spent time ‘coaching’ his chosen subordinates. He recognized that
a command structure is not a mere piece of architecture but also a collection of
relationships, and he took great care both to avoid appointing ‘people on whom
we cannot rely to assist us when need arises’ and to ‘mentor’ those whom he did
trust. When Parma’s parents both died in 1586, for example, the king wrote a
warm note of condolence, urging his nephew to ‘accept it with Christian constancy’
and ‘to look after your own health’, adding in his own hand, ‘Although you
have lost your parents within such a short time, I am still here to take their
place’.Such mentoring possessed special importance in Philip’s Monarchy
because, to save time, he expected his senior officials to move around from one
posting to another without coming back to Court for a briefing. Admittedly the
duke of Alba remained at Court for six months after his appointment as governorgeneral
of the Netherlands in 1566, discussing with the king all aspects of the
situation and the role expected of him; Viceroy Don Pedro de Toledo delayed his
departure for Peru in 1568 in order to participate in the discussions of the ‘Junta
Magna’, convened to devise solutions to the various problems of the Americas (p.
9 above); Pedro Menendez de Aviles received personal instruction from the king
before leaving to command the High Seas fleet in 1574; and Don John of Austria
returned to Madrid at Christmas 1574 to discuss with the council of State the
appropriate strategy and funding for the Mediterranean campaign he was to direct
the following year. These examples, all from the first half of the reign, proved
exceptions, however. Far more typical was the experience of Don Luis de
Requesens who in 1571, after serving as Don John’s deputy in the Alpujarras and
at Lepanto, went directly to govern Lombardy and then on to the Netherlands two
years later (being told that instructions on how to carry out his most difficult role
as Alba’s replacement would be waiting for him in Brussels). Likewise
Requesens’s brother Don Juan de Zuniga served as ambassador in Rome in 1568—
79 and then as viceroy of Naples in 1579—82 without returning to Spain, and the
count of Olivares served successively as ambassador in Rome (1582—91), viceroy
of Sicily (1591—95) and Naples (1595—99) without setting foot in Spain. Even
within the peninsula, the king saw no need to brief his senior commanders in
person: Medina Sidonia received orders to travel directly from his home near
Seville in 1588 to take command of the Armada in Lisbon; like Requesens, he was
told that he would find full Instructions at his destination.'^‘’^Philip also normally
declined to attend strategic discussions among his advisers. In 1588 Martin de
Bertendona, in charge of one of the Armada’s squadrons in Lisbon, exclaimed:
‘How I wish Your Majesty could be present for our debates, because it would be
very different to discuss matters in Your presence, where we could not fail to see
the truth, than to discuss it here, where those who understand [what they are
talking about} and those who do not all give their opinion, and sometimes
shameful things are heard’. But Bertendona wished in vain.'°''
Indeed except for the 1550s, when he yearned to lead his armies to victory in
40
person, Philip deliberately kept away from his troops during operations.
Although he went to Andalusia during the Morisco rebellion (1570), Portugal
after its annexation (1580-83), and Aragon after its revolt (1592), he visited only
areas in which hostilities had entirely ceased. Admittedly in March 1588 he told
Medina Sidonia that ‘If I were not needed so much here, to provide what is
necessary for that [enterprise} and for many other things, I would be very pleased
to join [the Armada} — and I would do so with great confidence that it would go
very well for me.This remarkable statement seems to have been pure hyperbole,
however, intended to encourage a dispirited commander. Philip’s normal
feelings on the subject emerged in a letter written somewhat earlier to his
daughter Catalina, duchess of Savoy, when it seemed that her husband intended
to lead a military expedition in person:
The duke must not be present nor even near [his troops}. Although I say this
partly because I wish him life, and because you need him alive, I believe I am
more moved by concern for his reputation, for if the enterprise succeeds, he will
gain as much prestige if he is absent as if he is present (and perhaps even more
if he is absent); but if he fails in what he plans (which can happen, since these
things are in the hands of God, not men), then his loss of prestige will be far
greater if he is present.
Perhaps: but more successful warlords - including his father Charles V and his
rival Henry IV in the sixteenth century, Lincoln in the nineteenth, Clemenceau
and Churchill in the twentieth — have found that there is no substitute either for
seeing the situation in a theatre for oneself, or for building bonds of confidence
and trust with theatre commanders through regular personal meetings. Without
question, in the 1560s Philip should have moved back to the Netherlands to
restore the shattered authority of his government; and in 1587-88 he should have
returned to Lisbon in order to ensure that everything possible was done to get the
Armada to sea on time.
Naturally, no CEO can be in all places of crisis at once, but (again like other
warlords) Philip should also have entrusted important instructions and policy
advice to confidential aides who could convey the spirit as well as the letter of
such communications to those whom he could not brief in person. That had
been common practice during the 1550s, when vital messages about strategy
exchanged between Philip (whether in Spain, England or the Netherlands) and his
father had normally been carried by leading councillors such as Alba, Ruy Gomez
and Erasso, who received extensive briefing on the matter so that they could
explain any obscurity in the written message.”*^ In later years, however, even
critical communications - such as the final instructions to Parma and Santa Cruz,
the commanders chosen to execute the Enterprise of England - were entrusted to
mere couriers who knew nothing of the contents.
This notable change in governmental practice, coupled with the king’s reluctance
to leave the comfort of his Castilian palaces, deprived him of a vital element
The Context of Strategic Culture
41
of effective decision-making: reliable feedback. Without either seeing for himself,
or hearing verbatim accounts from trusted aides, Philip became entirely
dependent on what he was told by the subordinates to whom he had communicated
the orders (and he did not always listen even to them: see pp. 195-7 below).
He could therefore never test whether the assumptions on which his decision had
been made remained valid, or whether they had become obsolete and needed to be
re-examined. Time and again, ignorance of the facts on the spot caused the king
to persist in a course of action long after it ha[d} ceased to be appropriate or even
rational’, producing many serious and costly errors.
Perhaps Philip s greatest failure as a CEO, however, lay in his inability to
understand his finances. Admittedly, he sometimes showed great foresight. Thus
in 1582 and again in 1583 he ordered his treasury officials to prepare an imperial
budget for the two succeeding years, in order to assure a more stable and
predictable flow of money to all his undertakings, and he built up a ‘strategic
reserve’ of coined money in both Milan and Madrid. Although the decision to
overthrow Elizabeth Tudor late in 1585 undermined these prudent measures,
the Enterprise of England also gave rise to much long-range planning because the
king recognized at the outset that it would take two years to mobilize the
necessary resources (see Chapter 6 below)."'Normally, however, Philip complained
bitterly that he could not comprehend the analyses sent to him by his
financial officials: ‘I have already told you on other occasions how little I understand
of these matters — and in this case I certainly understood very little, almost
nothing, of this paper, although I have read it more than twice.’ Sometimes he
sent back impenetrable memorials unread, with a curt dismissal: ‘The author
must understand this [paper} better than I do, because I cannot understand it at
all’; or ‘I read this paper by Juan Fernandez [de Espinosa}, but not the others,
^ understand anything about them and would not know what to
say. He recognized that financial considerations ‘are so many and so important
that truly I feel dismayed at not knowing what to do with them, since it is so
important to succeed in making the right decision’, but he often struggled in
vain. ‘To be frank,’ he complained after reading a particularly complex
proposition,
I do not understand a word of this. I do not know what I should do. Should I
send it to someone else for comment, and if so, to whom? Time is slipping
away, tell me what you advise. Or would it be best for me to see the author
(although I fear I shall not understand him)? Perhaps if I had the papers in front
of me it might not be too bad."^
In 1588 the shortage of funds became so acute that the king began to receive a
special statement every Saturday from his treasury advisers to show how much cash
they had in hand - the grand total was often less than 30,000 ducats, the cost of
the Armada for just one day — and how many obligations remained outstanding.
Philip II, generally reputed the richest monarch in the world, then spent several
‘The Largest Brain in the World’
42
hours ‘balancing his cheque book’ in order to decide which of his debts he could
afford to pay, and which he would have to defer (see Plate 26, p. 199).
Philip’s ‘zero-defects mentality’ and his fear of failure, reflected in his repeated
statements to ministers that ‘it is so important to get it right’, in part stemmed
from a sense of inferiority."® The careful education provided by Charles V for his
son and heir in the art of government heightened Philip’s awareness of the need
for success in order to prove himself worthy of his father and his mission, and of
the disgrace of failure. Shortly after Charles’s abdication, a declaration of war by
the French and excommunication by the pope in 1556 severely shook the young
king’s confidence and he pleaded with Charles ‘to help and aid me, not only with
his advice and counsel, which is the greatest strength that I could have, but also
with the presence of his person and authority’. Philip begged his father to leave
the monastery to which he had retired and resume governing, because ‘when this
alone becomes known to the world, I am entirely convinced that my enemies will
behave differently’."^ In the event, the spectacular defeat of the French at St
Quentin and the successful blockade of Rome soon provided reassurance; but
although the king’s confidence in his ability to govern grew with age, deep
insecurity still manifested itself in smaller, more personal matters. For example,
when in 1566 (at the age of 39) he became a proud father for only the second time,
he very much wanted to carry the baby to the font for baptism in person, but
worried about how best to do it. A few days before the ceremony he practised
carrying a doll of the right size and weight around; and yet, despite the rehearsal,
apparently fear of making some mistake during the actual ceremony at the last
moment made him surrender the honour to a relative.
Crises, when so much more can go wrong, dramatically increase the stress level
of people in power, and Philip was no exception. Thus in spring 15655 with
trouble brewing in the Netherlands and a Turkish attack in the Mediterranean
imminent, he confessed to one of his ministers that ‘the burden of business weighs
on me in such a way that I do not know what I am saying or doing’. He
nevertheless continued to push himself to the limit, working on his papers until
‘one o’clock [in the morning}, and everyone around me is going to sleep’. A little
later he lamented:
I am so busy and so deprived of sleep, because I need to spend most of the night
going over the papers that other business prevents me from seeing in the day.
So I am just beginning on these papers of yours - those of today and of
yesterday - now, which is after midnight, because I could not do so before.
Ten years later, humiliated by defeats in both the Mediterranean and the Netherlands,
and with his treasury almost empty, the king again pushed himself to
exhaustion. ‘[I am writing} with my eyes half closed,’ he began one letter;
‘Although the tiredness is less than yesterday, my eyes are in a terrible state,’ he
noted in another."^ When, in spite of all his efforts, his cause continued to lose
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 43
ground, he assured his secretary that: ‘If God does not perform miracles — which
we, for our sins, do not deserve — we will be unable to maintain ourselves for
[many more} months, let alone years. Nor do I have the vitality or health to
withstand the worry I feel about this, and thinking about what may happen — and
in my lifetime. So, fearing this, I am making haste with my Will.’ A few months
later, with the situation still bleak, the king felt ‘in a foul mood and fit for
nothing’ as he read reports of discontent among the taxpayers of Castile, on whose
increased contributions ‘depends the remedy for everything, if a remedy is still to
be found, although in truth I doubt it because everything seems about to fall
apart. How I wish I could die, so as not to see what I fear.’ Opening the other
letters on his desk depressed him even further. ‘When I saw how they started, I
read no further,’ he wrote, adding gloomily: ‘If this is not the end of the world, I
think we must be very close to it; and, please God, let it be the end of the whole
world, and not just the end of Christendom.’"^ Before long Philip felt ‘so
exhausted’ that he even gave up on his paperwork: ‘Since I have not sent you
anything, you can imagine what must be happening here at the moment. Certainly
I do not know how I stay alive.’""*
No aspect of the policy-making process can long remain immune to the effects
of stress. According to a recent study:
Stress can impair attention and perception: important areas of the crisis situation
may escape scrutiny, conflicting values and interests at stake may be
ignored, the range of perceived alternatives is likely to narrow but not
necessarily to the best option, and the search for relevant options tends to be
dominated by past experience.
For Philip, as for later statesmen, acute stress in times of crisis increased ‘cognitive
rigidity’ and thus served to impair ‘the ability to improvise and [to} reduce
creativity, diminish receptivity to information that challenges existing beliefs,
increase stereotyped thinking, and reduce tolerance for ambiguity leading to a
premature termination of the search for information’. Time and again, when under
stress the king first became obsessed by concern for the present and the immediate
future, at the expense of longer-range considerations; then he fixed upon a single
approach, continuing to use it even when its viability had become questionable;
and finally he abandoned all attempts to find alternative strategies and instead
resigned himself to the inevitable."^
At times, physical illness also prevented Philip from transacting business
during a crisis. Some of his ailments were perfectly normal: arthritis (‘I got up late
today because I had gout in one foot’), indigestion (‘I have stomach ache today’)
and, of course, lots of colds. ‘I cannot handle any further business just now’, he
informed his secretary one day, ‘because I have a terrible cold — which I already
had last night — and I am certainly not fit to read or write.’ And when more papers
nevertheless arrived, the king lost his temper and scribbled on the dossier (as he
sent it back) ‘Look at the medicine I get to cure my cold!’"^More frequently he
44
complained about the tired eyes, at least until he began to wear spectacles in the
1580s. His dependence on them is illustrated by his decision one day not to take
any business papers with him on a trip because ‘my sight is not as good as it used
to be for reading in a coach’ and ‘I am ashamed to wear glasses in public’. He
also tried to read less and began to insist that no more work should be sent to him
late at night: ‘I was already in bed last night when this [package} came’, he
scolded his secretary, ‘and, as you know, my doctors do not wish me to see any
papers after I have eaten dinner’. On another occasion he complained that reading
so many papers made him cough: ‘I have got a terrible cough and cold, and I am
convinced it comes from the papers because as soon as I pick them up I start to
cough, , . 127
Here, clearly, Philip found excuses to avoid work, and it seems suspicious that
upon the arrival of inconvenient or unwelcome news he sometimes took to his bed
with either a physical complaint or one of the migraines he described as ‘a terrible
head \ruin cabezaf. The king himself admitted this: in 1573 he told the duke of
Alba that ‘just as I think that the concern I feel for events there [in the Netherlands}
is partly to blame for my fever, so I am convinced that the good news you
sent recently has cured me’.But, whatever the causes, the consequences of the
king’s illnesses could be extremely serious, especially as he grew older. Thus in
February 1587 Philip (almost sixty years old) went to bed, disabled by arthritis,
and there he stayed until the following July. Even though Drake’s raid on Cadiz
in April called for urgent measures, Philip’s incapacity dramatically lengthened
the delays inherent in his administration and by May the pressure of unresolved
business had become acute. In the revealing phrase of the king’s valet: ‘God grant
complete health and long life to His Majesty. His pain afflicts me, because when
he gets it in his leg we feel it in our heads, and everything stops. A few days later,
the secretary of the council of War, desperately trying to organize not only the
departure of the Armada but also imperial defence in the wake of Drake’s raid,
complained bitterly that ‘a lot of time is being wasted in consultations, and His
Majesty is slow to respond; so we are losing time that cannot be recovered’. He
suggested that more matters be delegated to his council for decision, ‘because the
situation is extraordinary and it seems reasonable that the manner of transacting
business should be extraordinary too’.But nothing seemed to change. In June,
again according to the king’s valet: ‘My heart melts to see His Majesty so tired and
weak, and the machinery of state in suspense’; and, two weeks later, ‘His Majesty’s
eyes are still running, his feet tender, his hand recovering; and the world is
waiting.’ After a few weeks of this, the king’s ministers became as exhausted as
their master: ‘His Majesty says that, because he is so very tired he cannot return
the papers that he has tonight’, reported a member of the Junta de Noche, and
then added: ‘To tell you the truth, sir, we are all falling to pieces.
High stress occasionally induced a psychological crisis. Early in 1569,
following the death of his son and heir Don Carlos and of his wife, Elisabeth de
Valois, and with the Moriscos of Granada in open revolt, the king apparently
longed to abdicate. In a remarkable letter to his chief minister he confided:
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘The Largest Brain in the World’ 45
These things cannot fail to cause pain and exhaustion, and, believe me, I am so
exhausted and pained by them, and by what happens in this world, that if it was
not for the business of Granada and other things which cannot be abandoned,
I do not know what I would do . . . Certainly I am no good for the world of
today. I know very well that I should be in some other station in life, one less
exalted than the one God has given me, which for me alone is terrible. And
many criticize me for this. Please God that in heaven we shall be treated
better.
The failure of his policies in the Netherlands in 1574—75 against England in
1588 produced renewed bouts of deep depression.
Surely, however, a few stress-induced ‘dark nights of the soul’ were inevitable
in an active political life that spanned half a century. It would be remarkable —
perhaps even sinister — if a statesman who ruled a global empire almost constantly
at war never experienced a moment’s doubt, depression, even despair. Moreover,
these anguished episodes have only come to light because of the king’s remarkable
habit of committing his innermost thoughts to paper as they occurred to him, and
the equally remarkable chance that so many of those papers have survived. The
significant issue is not whether - or even how often - Philip felt unequal to the
tasks of state that confronted him, but the extent to which these and his other
problems compromised the ability of the ‘largest brain in the world’ to act as an
effective chief executive: to deal with the rising tide of information that flowed
over his desk, to formulate a coherent strategy for the world-wide Monarchy over
which he ruled, and to delegate authority to his lieutenants so that they could
implement that strategy effectively.
1
2 Distance: Public Enemy Number i ?
‘From Plato to NATO’, Martin van Creveld has suggested,
the history of command in war consists essentially of an endless search for
certainty . . . To make certain of each and every one of a vast majority of details
. . . each and every one of which must be coordinated with all the others in
order to achieve optimum results — that is the purpose of any command system
. . . Certainty itself is best understood as the product of two factors: the amount
of information available and the nature of the task to be performed.
The ‘amount of information available’ has not, however, remained either constant
or regular over time. On the contrary, developments in information technology
have periodically transformed both its quality and quantity — silicon chips and
satellites in the late twentieth century; telegraph and telephone in the nineteenth
century; regular couriers and resident ambassadors in the sixteenth century. All of
these improvements in information technology possessed the potential to confuse
as well as to clarify, because they generated — at least for a time — more data than
the human mind could handle.
Oswald Spengler wrote (somewhat patronizingly) of the pressure of events that
he believed had precipitated World War I: ‘In the Classical world, years played no
role, in the Indian world decades scarcely mattered; but here the hour, the minute,
even the second is of importance. Neither a Greek nor an Indian could have had
any idea of the tragic tension of a historic crisis like that of August, 1914, when
even moments seemed of overwhelming significance’. And within Europe, the
onset of the crisis seemed incomprehensible without the tensions created by
the latest information technology. According to Sir Edward Satow, a diplomat
writing in 1917 as the war entered its fourth terrible year:
The moral qualities — prudence, foresight, intelligence, penetration, wisdom —
of statesmen and nations have not kept pace with the development of the means
of action at their disposal: armies, ships, guns, explosives, land transport, but,
more than all that, of rapidity of communication by telegraph and telephone.
47
48 The Context of Strategic Culture
These latter leave no time for reflection or consultation, and demand an
immediate and often hasty decision on matters of vital importance.^
In Philip IPs day, of course, communications functioned far more slowly than
this; indeed much has been made of the relatively slow pace at which news then
normally travelled. The king himself, in his final paper of advice to his son,
blamed many of the problems he had encountered on ‘the distance that separates
one state from another’; while Fernand Braudel later suggested that in the
sixteenth century ‘distance was “Public enemy number i ” ’ and that it explained
a good part of the decisions taken by the Prudent King.^ Nevertheless, the
problem can be exaggerated. Although news travelled slowly by today’s standards,
it still often arrived too fast and too copiously for the good of its recipients. If one
substitutes ‘couriers and diplomats’ for ‘telegraph and telephone’. Sir Edward
Satow’s analysis becomes as appropriate for Philip II and Elizabeth Tudor as for
Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg and Sir Edward Grey. The ‘matters of vital
importance’ that arrived on their desks at times of crisis did not allow them,
either, adequate ‘time for reflection and consultation’.
Philip II could count on a postal service of unprecedented quality. The Taxis
family created a direct courier link between Spain and the Netherlands through
France, with io6 relay stations (each provided with at least two horses), soon after
Philip of Burgundy became king of Castile in 1504. In 1516 his son Charles
signed a contract with the Taxis company that established guaranteed times for
various services to link him with his representatives in Germany, Italy, Spain and
the Netherlands; and two years later, Charles and Francis I of France agreed to
accord the service diplomatic immunity, permitting all couriers on official business
free passage across their territories in time of peace, and every week scores of
messages passed safely along the chain.^ From 1560, an ‘ordinary’ courier left
Madrid for Brussels (and vice versa) on the first day of each month (and later on
the 15th also), with additional ‘extraordinary’ messengers dispatched as necessary,
while a similar service linked Madrid with both Rome and Vienna. In 1567 the
duke of Alba established a new postal chain, with two horses at each relay station,
from Milan to Brussels during his march to the Netherlands along what would
later be called ‘the Spanish Road’, providing an alternative link with Spain
whenever civil war rendered passage through France unsafe. In 1572 he began to
send two copies of all his letters to the king: one through France and the other
down the Spanish Road to Italy and from there to Barcelona by sea.^
Charles Howard Carter, a noted diplomatic historian, has suggested that:
Foreign policy is fundamentally a matter of decisions made; that the quality of
those decisions (and thus of the foreign policy) is governed by the quality of the
men making them and by the quality of the information on which they are
based; and that the quality of the information is even more important to the
quality of the decisions than that of the men.^
Distance: Public Enemy Number 1 ? 49
The ‘superior quality’ of Philip’s information emerges clearly in the correspondence
of envoys from other states who repeatedly found themselves at a disadvantage
at the Court of Spain because Philip knew about developments before they
did. On 15 October 1569, for example, Philip ‘with a smile on his face’ announced
to Ambassador Fourquevaux of France at an audience that his master’s army had
won a major victory over the Protestants (at Moncontour, near Poitiers, on the
3rd): a special messenger from an agent in Lyon had just arrived with the news.
Confirmation of the victory came on the 21st with an express courier sent by
the Spanish ambassador in France. Fourquevaux, however, only heard the news
from his own government later. A few months afterwards, wondering nervously
whether his courier carrying important documents had reached the French Court,
Fourquevaux learned from the Spanish secretary of state that he had: Philip’s
ambassador in Paris had just reported his safe arrival. In 1576 the Florentine
envoy suffered acute embarrassment when news arrived in Madrid from the king’s
agents in Italy that two members of the ruling Medici family had, within a matter
of days, accused their wives of adultery and murdered them. Unfortunately for the
diplomat, both ladies belonged to the powerful Toledo dynasty (headed by the
duke of Alba) and for the next four weeks he remained ‘the most confused man in
the world’, lacking a letter from his master to confirm (let alone explain) the story,
forced to hide behind pillars and curtains in the royal palace every time he sighted
Alba or one of his relatives.^
More awkwardly - and far more compromisingly — foreign ambassadors sometimes
lacked a courier of their own to carry an urgent letter, and therefore
entrusted the dispatch to a messenger in Spanish service. For example, when in
1571 Charles IX reproached Fourquevaux (on grounds of cost) for using express
messengers too frequently, the diplomat reported virtuously that he had, in five
and a half years, sent only eighteen express couriers, plus an extra fourteen cheaper
agents who had carried his letters on foot to Bayonne, where they entrusted them
to the regular French postal service. Many of his other urgent letters, he asserted,
had left with the Habsburgs’ couriers going to Paris en route for Brussels or to Lyon
en route for Vienna. He made no comment on how the practice might have
compromised the security of communications with his master, although it may
help to explain how the Spanish ambassador in Paris always seemed to know the
contents of Fourquevaux’s dispatches.^ The experience of Ambassador Leonardo
Dona of Venice (1570—73) followed much the same pattern: Philip and his
ministers always seemed better informed. On 6 June 1571 a royal express messenger
from Rome brought news that the representatives of Spain, Venice and the
Papacy had just concluded a League dedicated to the defeat of the Ottoman Turks
eighteen days earlier — a very fast journey. A papal courier arrived with confirmation
on the loth but Dona himself only received word from his principals on the
28th. Later that year, although he was the first person at Court to receive a full
account of the victory of Lepanto, when he arrived to share the news with the
king he discovered that Philip had got word of it half an hour before. Like
Fourquevaux, Dona also regularly allowed Spanish couriers to carry his urgent
50 The Context of Strategic Culture
dispatches (mostly unciphered); sometimes he even delivered them in advance to
Secretary of State Antonio Perez so that they would be on hand whenever the
king’s express messengers left for Italy. Even the mysterious disappearance of two
packages sent in this way failed to shake Dona’s trust: he judged that his news
simply could not wait for the ‘ordinary’ courier and never seems to have considered
the possibility that Perez might have been secretly reading his mail.^
Communications between the Court and its overseas possessions normally
followed the rhythm of the annual trading convoys. Carracks left Lisbon for Goa
every March or April, in order to catch the westerly monsoon upon entering the
Indian Ocean in July and arrive in September or October (hence the volumes of
royal letters in the Goan archives are called to this day ‘Monsoon Books’); ships
carrying the replies would try to leave India each December or January, so as to
gain the easterly monsoon back. Monsoons also dominated the sailings of the
‘Manila galleon’, which left Acapulco each spring and reached the Philippines
about three months later, returning the following year in June or July but taking
about six months (due to the prevalence of easterly winds). Fleets of up to 150
vessels left Seville for the Caribbean each summer and returned the following
autumn. Even letters written in Mexico to coincide with the departure of these
fleets rarely arrived in Spain in under four months; those from Lima, Peru, often
took between six and nine months, and those sent from the Philippines might
take up to two years.^
Urgent news could often be sent at other times, however. For example, Philip
informed his new overseas territories of his succession to the Portuguese crown in
letters signed at Badajoz on 7 November 1580: they reached Goa, the capital of
Portuguese India (by overland courier to Ormuz, at the mouth of the Persian Gulf,
and thence by ship), on i September 1581, and Malacca (by ship) on 23 November.
Remarkably, by the time the letters reached Macao, in March 1582, news of
Philip’s succession had already arrived via Mexico and Manila. ‘Advice ships’
could also cross the Atlantic rapidly at any time. In 1585 a vessel carrying priority
mail left Seville for Panama in April and got there and back in three months and
twelve days - although a letter reporting the feat noted that ‘this is the fastest
speed that has been seen for many years’. Unpredictability also characterized
communications with the Far East: on 31 December 1588 the bishop of Malacca
sat down to reply to royal letters written in spring 1586, spring 1587 and spring
1588, which had all arrived at the same time.^^
These aberrations make it very difficult to reconstruct with confidence the
average pace of routine correspondence between the king and his ministers, but
the records of the Audiencia of the viceroyalty of New Spain (Mexico) shed an
unexpected beam of light because they occasionally registered full details of
communications received from the king. Thus in August 1583 a courier arrived
in Mexico City from Veracruz (where the annual trading fleet had just arrived)
bearing four letters and forty-six orders (cedulas) from the king addressed either
to the Audiencia or to the viceroy (who had just died, so the Audiencia opened his
mail too: see Figure 2). The letters, dated June and July 1582 (having just missed
the annual fleet of that year) and March and April 1583, answered missives sent
from Mexico City between February 1580 and November 1582 - delays that
stretched from nine to forty-two months. The cedulas likewise displayed strong
variations in turn-around time : of the 46 received in August 1583, 7 had been
issued the previous May (a lapse of only three months), 20 in April (a lapse of four
months) and 7 earlier that same year (a lapse of between five and eight months);
7 more had been signed in the second half of 1582, and so missed the previous
year s fleet which left Spain early in July. But why one cedula signed in 1581 and
four signed in the first half of 1582 should only have been sent on the fleet that
left in June 1583 remains a mystery. Clearly some part of the king’s government
had under-performed. In November 1590, the Audiencia again recorded the
details concerning the arrival of royal mail - this time only two'letters and five
cedulas. The letters, signed the previous June and July, dealt with matters referred
to the king between February 1587 and February 1590 - once more a surprisingly
Distance: Public Enemy Number i? ^ j
Figure 2 On 27 August 1583 four letters and forty-six orders from the king arrived in Mexico
City. They had come to the port of Veracruz on the annual convoy from Spain, and there a royal
courier conveyed them at top speed to the capital. Nevertheless much of the information
contained in the royal letters must have seemed ‘stale’ since they replied to letters written in
Mexico between February 1580 and November 1582, a delay of between nine months and
three-and-a-half years. The orders (cedulas) displayed the same variation; one of those received in
August 1583 had left Philip’s desk on 31 May 1583, less than three months before, but another
had been signed on 5 March 1581, over two years before. Source: AGNM CRD II/15-36.
Communications between Philip II and Mexico in 1583
Cedulas signed by the king
20
Jan.-June July-Dee. Jan.-June July-Dee. Jan-June July-Dee. Jan.-Mar.
1580 1580 1581 1581 1582 1582 1583 Apr.
1583
May
1583
Letters from Mexico to which the king replied
2
I
I--------------
Jan.-June
1580
July-Dee.
1580
Jan.-June
1581
III ------------^^---------------1
July-Dee. Jan.-June July-Dee.
1581 1582 1582
wide range; while the incoming cedulas dated from November 1587, May 1588,
November 1589 and February and July 1590 - a lapse of between four months
and four years
‘Normal efficiency’ for the communications of Philip’s Monarchy in Europe is
equally hard to establish. Of thirty-two letters from the Court received by the
Spanish ambassador in Paris during the year 1578, the fastest took only seven days
and the slowest forty-nine; sixteen letters (half of the total) took between ten and
fourteen days. So far no systematic study based on government archives has been
attempted, but a meticulous analysis of the time taken by some 10,000 letters to
reach Venice earlier in the century offers a useful frame of reference (see Table 2).
Despite the marked variation between the fastest and slowest recorded times, the
data (perhaps unsurprisingly) show that the closer the location, the more letters
arrived at the ‘normal’ (that is, the most common) time: only 12 per cent
from London and Valladolid, rising to 26 per cent from Naples and 38 from
Rome.^^
These striking contrasts reveal that the principal informational problem that
confronted governments in the sixteenth century was not so much that messages
came late (although this could of course cause difficulties) but rather that their
arrival proved totally unpredictable — a classic example of the friction later
described by Carl von Clausewitz (pp. 205—6 below). It confirms Philip s own
observation that ‘couriers either fly or sleep’ and explains why on occasion he
dreamed of an ‘air mail’ service: in 1576, when he appointed Don John of Austria
(then in Naples) to take command in the Netherlands, Philip wistfully observed,
‘I heartily wish that the man who carries this letter could have wings to fly — and
you too, so that you could get there more rapidly’.In fact, important information
often did travel extremely fast: in 1566, the ‘year of wonders in the Netherlands,
individual couriers managed to convey vital messages along the postal chain
between Brussels and the Court of Spain in eleven, ten and, in one case, only nine
days (an average speed of 150 kilometres each day).News of the victory of
Lepanto in 1571 covered over 3,500 kilometres in just under twenty-four days
(again an average speed of over 150 kilometres a day); and the following year a
galley carrying letters from Philip’s fleet in Messina reached Barcelona - almost
1,500 kilometres away — in only eight days, having flown rather than sailed . A
ship carrying news of the French attempt to capture Antwerp in 1583 reached
Lisbon in eight days; another bearing information on Parma’s preparations for the
invasion of England) in 1588 arrived in only five.^^ But these were all exceptions,
and men recorded them precisely because they occasioned surprise.
Relatively few messengers from the Netherlands took less than two weeks to
reach the Court of Spain and sometimes - due to broken bridges, bad weather,
bandits, sickness or the lack of horses at a postal relay station - they might take
three weeks, three months, sometimes even longer. A Spanish bishop in 1557
complained that a letter from the Netherlands had taken so long to arrive that
‘it could have gone to America two or three times and still got here sooner’; the
king’s decision in July 1573 to order a switch from a policy of ‘hard war’ against
5 2 The Context of Strategic Culture
News arriving at Venice between 1497 and 1522
Place of origin Number of letrers Shortest time Longest time Normal time Normal cases
i
tnfsvo fooo cs cs
MMMMCSMCnMOl
fTsSO 00 O CS VO ITn CM
CNt-'^r^XVOO'Hrrj
c
o r^’^'^00 cN M cs m (N M cs M
c
\T\CS M cs O TfCvmCN
c
\T\ ON ON (N 00
00 ON«r\cs cs
cTip-^vo r^oo r^iTNCs
>H CONO so o l-l M
pq CQ u 1-3 Z c£ pIc!
t3/1 tOlU 2C2 C o ■ d 3 O O > >
J- Jj o
•- S S 2
> O ^ C ° folj -n ^^ C y G ^
p^ <<uu
3 a
> ^ c
6O ”OJ -c -5 •
VO OJ o
■ 3 8 -
JS
—' JP w
S -5 o
I s-fs
_ .222 rOT"Oj Ci -2o V°4_ 23
S S ^ «
1) 2 ii
c M — y
G ^ ’rj ^
c/3 .u2 Gh tGwo ub- Uah U6, (dtcc
-9 2 a bOO J*P-■ ocJ <u ^c
: 'P o>
3^ 1S3 ^^ se g? gI
-is-S
-D 3
4O-1 CO <3/i
- - O
46-1 ^O4 3--1 OC 00 3c ■■ 0-o^ 36 1a3j .tcis cO 1) a, '1
56 ^
«■§
-^a S(A
^ §
^ 6
5 I
ii
54
the Dutch to one of conciliation took six weeks to reach the Netherlands - too late
to be implemented/^ Even worse could happen. In 1568, two Spanish couriers
were murdered in southern France and their letters (from ministers in Brussels
and Paris) opened and destroyed. From time to time, the chronic insecurity of the
roads in the south of France compelled the Spanish ambassador in Paris to entrust
dispatches to ordinary travellers going on foot. The same uncertainty characterized
other postal routes. In August 1570 couriers reached the Court of Spain
almost simultaneously from Sicily, Rome, Florence and Venice, but their arrival
followed a whole month during which no messages at all had got through from
Italy; in 1582, and again in 1591, Spanish couriers were assassinated as they
travelled between Naples and Rome; and on most postal routes letters were
occasionally intercepted and read. Even communications over shorter distances
could sometimes languish: in the Netherlands, in the crisis year of 1566, the
governor of the outlying province of Friesland, trying to get help from the central
government in Brussels, found that ‘messengers on foot go faster’; while in Spain
communications between the Court and the city of Palencia (scarcely 200 kilometres
away) likewise went on foot - and could take two weeks! The command
system of the Spanish Monarchy had literally slowed to a walk.
Bad weather and natural disasters could delay communications even further,
especially by sea. For example, over the winter of 1567-68 adverse weather meant
that letters from Philip’s ambassador in London took three months to arrive in
Madrid (and the king’s replies took a further two); while Spanish attempts to
support rebellion in Ireland repeatedly ran into difficulties because vital messages
took so long to reach their destination. Thus a courier bearing promises of
assistance to the earl of Tyrone left Madrid on 19 August 1596 but only delivered
them on 7 October, while the earl’s reply did not reach Madrid until 26
November; and although another Irish chief wrote to Philip in May 1596, and the
king signed his reply in August, it only reached Ireland in June 1597. On the
continent, in 1574 Spanish ministers in Brussels reckoned to receive replies to
dispatches sent to Rome via the ordinary courier within six weeks but in 1575 the
onset of plague in northern Italy meant that they had to wait seven and even eight
weeks. In 1581 letters sent by Philip’s ambassador in Prague, then the emperor s
capital, to Lisbon, where the king resided, took about one month in summer but
almost two in winter.^^
Some officials deliberately exploited postal delays and irregularities in order to
buy time before they implemented an unpopular command, and some have drawn
attention to the maxim, common in the Habsburg Monarchy, ‘I obey but I do not
execute \obedezco pero no cumplof. Thus in 1569 the Audiencia of Mexico declined
to carry out a direct order from the king to arrest ‘one Espinola’ for murder
because the man’s identity and forename were not given. But such controlled
disobedience could only go so far: the following year the king supplied the
missing data and called for immediate action, observing, ‘You should not have
had this scruple, since the said Espinola had committed such a [heinous] crime’.
More seriously (and more effectively) the duke of Parma, faced by a royal demand
The Context of Strategic Culture Distance: Public Enemy Number i ? 55
in December 1585 to prepare a strategy for the conquest of England, stalled for as
long as he could and when, four months later, he finally completed his assessment,
he entrusted it to a personal messenger whom (he told the king) he would send ‘by
the most direct route’: this, it turned out, involved travelling down the Spanish
Road from Brussels via Besan^on, Chambery and Turin to Genoa, a sea crossing
to Barcelona, and so to Madrid, arriving only after another two months, in June
1586 — by which time it was of course too late to implement the conquest that
23 year.
In fact, however, ministers rarely entrusted important communications to a
single messenger: whenever delays or disruption threatened the postal service (for
instance in wartime), vital letters went out in duplicate and even triplicate
(attaching further copies of previous dispatches also became standard practice).^"*
Moreover, news seldom travelled along only one route: data normally fanned out
to numerous centres, to be relayed onwards to yet others, so that information that
might move slowly by one channel might arrive relatively swiftly by another.^’
Thus in 1572, when a party of Dutch rebels captured first Brill and then Flushing,
the duke of Alba (in Brussels) hoped to keep the news from the king until he had
dealt with the problem: ‘Affairs here are in a much worse state than I am telling
His Majesty,’ he confided to a relative at Court. Even before he wrote these words,
however, letters from merchants and other ministers in the Netherlands containing
full details of the setbacks had reached the king; and when Alba
eventually brought his master up to date, he received a stern rebuke for the delay
in doing so. The duke’s (rather feeble) response was that ‘since the merchants and
other people who like to write are active in many areas, it does not surprise me
that Your Majesty should have received news of what happened at the Brill and
on 'Walcheren before I wrote about it.’^*^
The duke had a point: people in the sixteenth century thirsted for ‘the latest
news’ and did not like waiting for it. In 1561 the viceroy of New Spain informed
the magistrates of Veracruz (the port of entry for all vessels arriving from Spain)
that the merchants of Mexico City had complained that ‘it is customary to release
[in Veracruz] the letters and orders that come from the kingdom of Castile for the
said merchants and other private individuals only two or three days after the
orders of His Majesty have been dispatched here, so that their addressees should
not see them before the Royal Audiencia sees its own letters’. The merchants
claimed that these delays prejudiced their business interests, and so the viceroy
decreed that the first or second courier leaving Veracruz with the king’s letters
could also carry private correspondence if their mailbags had space; but, he
continued, on reaching Mexico City the couriers must still ‘come straight to my
palace and bring me and the Royal Audiencia the letters and packages from His
Majesty for me or for them first’. Any courier breaking this order would be
banished from the capital for two years on the first offence, and would receive 100
lashes and perpetual banishment for the second. It would be hard to find better
testimony to the value placed upon up-to-date information both by Philip’s
ministers and by his subjects.^^
Thanks to the efforts of hundreds of couriers, Philip II disposed of unprecedented
varieties (as well as quantities) of information on recent developments. At the
summit stood the data gathered by his ambassadors. Spain maintained the largest
diplomatic establishment of any state to that date with permanent embassies in
Rome, Venice, France, Genoa, Vienna, the Swiss cantons and Savoy (also in Lisbon
until 1580 and in London until 1584) as well as temporary missions elsewhere
when occasion required. Philip’s envoys, most of them younger sons of the
nobility (many with university, administrative or military experience), seemed
able to penetrate almost every secret: in the 1560s, embassy officials in either
London or Paris managed to obtain and copy a map of the French settlements in
Florida (which greatly assisted Pedro Menendez’s subsequent campaign to destroy
them), and in the 1580s the papal cipher clerk, the English ambassador in Paris
and the comptroller of Elizabeth’s household (to name but the most prominent)
all accepted money from Philip’s diplomats.The king received a report from
each ambassador at least once a week, if not more often, and he expected to receive
information on absolutely everything. When in 1563 his envoy at the council of
Trent failed to mention in his letters that an issue of interest to Spain had been
discussed, the king rebuked him at some length: ‘I cannot refrain from telling you
now that I am amazed that something of such importance should have happened
without you finding out, because I believe that nothing, whether great or small,
should be done in that council without you knowing all about it.’ The king also
expected his viceroys, generals and other commanders to keep him meticulously
informed of developments. During his campaign to conquer Portugal in 1580, the
duke of Alba wrote progress reports to the king almost daily (and on some days
he sent two, three and even four letters, with more to the leading ministers at
Court); while somewhat later the marquis of Santa Cruz (commander of the
Armada in Lisbon) maintained his own spies in England, and sent their (sometimes
superior) reports to the king for comparison with those received from his
ambassador in Paris.
Philip also expected his ministers abroad to correspond extensively with their
colleagues. His instructions to a new ambassador to the Court of Savoy in 1595
stressed not only the need for regular correspondence with Madrid, but for
‘continual’ contact with the governors of Milan and Franche-Comte, the viceroys
of Naples and Sicily, the governor-general of the Netherlands, and the Spanish
ambassadors in Rome, Genoa, Venice and Vienna. Philip prepared a special letter
for each of these officials, to be sent by the envoy on his arrival in Turin, enjoining
them in the king’s name to correspond with their new colleague. He also expected
to receive copies of these exchanges himself.^” Many ministers of the crown in fact
already possessed good reason to exchange information. Some were close relatives:
Thomas Perrenot de Chantonnay (Philip’s ambassador in Paris and then Vienna in
the 1560s) was Cardinal Granvelle’s brother; despite their different surnames,
Don Luis de Requesens and Don Juan de Zuniga were also brothers and wrote to
each other several times a month (in 1573’ when the king appointed the former
to govern the Netherlands, Zuniga drafted the various letters in which his brother
56 The Context of Strategic Culture 57
tried to decline the poisoned chalice).Others were clients: when in 1557 Zuniga
travelled to the Netherlands to serve the king for the first time, Requesens wrote
a letter asking Granvelle to look after him, since ‘my brother is your great servant,
and understands very well the obligation that we both have to serve you’. Aspiring
courtiers later attached themselves to one or other of Philip’s leading Spanish
advisers, such as Ruy Gomez da Silva, the duke of Alba or Cardinal Espinosa (who
kept a detailed register of promising young men, noting the names of their
sponsors and the suitable jobs available).Once appointed, all ‘clients’ made a
point of keeping their patron well informed. In addition, in the 1560s Alba
presided over an informal ‘Academy’ in Madrid which counted among its
members a whole future generation of the king’s servants: Idiaquez, Moura,
Zuniga, Silva and Olivares (to name just those who appear frequently in these
pages) all belonged, and they seem to have maintained regular contact with each
other for the rest of their lives, both in and out of ministerial office.Thus the
archive of Don Juan de Zuniga, ambassador in Rome and later viceroy of Naples,
contained thirty boxes of correspondence with his colleagues between 1571 and
1583; while Philip’s ambassador to the Venetian Republic received over 1,000
missives from other ministers in 1587—88 alone.
This extensive exchange of letters represented a massive investment, for each
express courier carrying messages from the Netherlands to Spain cost 400 ducats,
and each one from Sicily to Spain cost 360 (far more than the annual salary of a
galley captain or a university professor). The total cost of express messengers
dispatched by the central government averaged almost 3,000 ducats a month
(equivalent to the wages of an entire infantry regiment) at the beginning of the
reign, rising to 9,000 by the end, while maintaining just the postal chain between
Brussels and Savoy cost almost 1,000 ducats a year by the 1580s. The remuneration
of couriers normally constituted the largest item in the budget of every
ambassador.
Merchants, too, maintained their own communications network and exchanged
political as well as commercial information. Simon Ruiz of Medina del Campo, for
example, ran a commercial enterprise which grew tenfold in value between 1561
and his death in 1597, from 35,000 to 360,000 ducats — relatively modest by the
standards of the later sixteenth century. Yet his correspondents resided in Portugal,
the Netherlands, France and Italy (with a few in America and Germany) and
Ruiz devoted two days of every month - the days before the ‘ordinary couriers’ left
— to writing and dictating letters that would bring everyone up to date (often
attaching to each a duplicate of the preceding dispatch, in case it had been lost,
and sometimes sending up to five copies of important letters by different routes).
His agents abroad reciprocated faithfully: they normally wrote at least every
fortnight, with additional express messengers when something important for
their master’s business cropped up. They also kept in close touch with Philip IPs
ministers — especially after Ruiz began to lend money to the government in the
1570s, making it essential to monitor the fortunes of the Monarchy as well as the
vicissitudes of the market. Their combined efforts eventually generated an archive
Distance: Public Enemy Number i ?
of over 50,000 letters at Ruiz’s headquarters in Medina del Campo and created a
major clearing house for information on which the government could draw. The
couriers of Ruiz and other merchants, as well as ordinary travellers, might also
pick up and pass on extra news, much of which also reached the Court and helped
to inform the king of events.Finally, even though Philip condemned opening
other people’s letters as ‘a sin again God’, from time to time he sinned himself. He
occasionally ordered mail to be intercepted and transcribed ‘so that nobody will
know, and keep a copy in case I should want it’, or ‘without a living soul knowing
or seeing . . . even though the letters are not for me’, and sometimes even ‘in a
script that no one will recognize’.In 1590 Spanish agents secured four letters
sent by the French envoy in Madrid to Henry IV; each was sent to a ‘codebreaker’
at Court, who forwarded his efforts to Philip.
Most of these communications concerned time-sensitive material relating to an
immediate problem, and some feared that they did not provide sufficient information
for long-term decision-making. According to Fray Geronimo de Mendieta,
writing from New Spain in the 1560s, ‘Your Majesty is like a blind man who has
excellent understanding but can only see exterior objects . . . through the eyes of
those who describe them to you.’^^But this was an overstatement: although Philip
had never visited the Americas (to which Mendieta specifically referred), between
1548 and 1559 he had spent a year in Germany, two years in England and almost
five in the Netherlands (including an extensive tour through almost all the
provinces). He had also visited Italy and crossed the Alps twice. In addition he
travelled all over the Iberian peninsula, living (in all) for over three years in
Aragon and for almost as long in Portugal. The king possessed a prodigious
memory for what he had read and seen, on which many contemporaries commented,
which assisted him greatly in keeping up with all the responsibilities of
his office; and on occasion he used his personal knowledge of far-away people and
places to devastating effect. When in 1574 the Inquisitor-General tried to dismiss
some criticisms of the Holy Office, Philip retorted that ‘in the past we all know
that [abuses] have been numerous, and I can assure you that in Valencia I saw
them with my own eyes’.
Philip constantly sought to update and extend his personal knowledge, both
about his own possessions and about those of his neighbours, ‘through the eyes of
those who describe them’. By way of example, in June 1588 the king signed a
typical ‘fact-finding’ enquiry to the viceroy of Mexico. The viceroy had recently
reminded the king that a special ‘charity tax’ levied on the native population
financed the work of the friars and others who preached Christian doctrine in the
countryside, but noted that ‘with the diseases that have occurred among the said
Indians since the year 1576 a large part of them have died, and although the tax
yield has fallen and the number of those to be instructed has declined [the
preachers] enjoy the same remuneration’. The viceroy therefore proposed that the
stipends paid to the clergy involved ‘should be reduced in proportion to the fall
in the number of natives’. The king, however, demanded more information on
58 The Context of Strategic Culture Distance: Public Enemy Number i ? 59
every aspect of the case before reaching a decision. The fact that Philip and his
ministers found time to launch this enquiry at a moment when they struggled to
cope with the crisis caused by the Armada’s unexpected return to Spain after being
hit by a storm — and anxiously sought to save money wherever possible — is highly
revealing. Even in 1598, with death fast approaching, the king found time to
rebuke the viceroy of Portuguese India for failing to send on some letters received
in Goa from the emperor of Ethiopia, because no one had been able to translate
them into Portuguese. ‘There is no shortage of people here who can do so,’ he
wrote irritably, and ordered that any similar communications in the future should
be forwarded without fail.'^^
Furthermore Philip could call upon the personal knowledge of his welltravelled
advisers: ministers Don Luis de Requesens and Ruy Gomez da Silva and
secretaries Gonzalo Perez and Gabriel de Zayas had all accompanied Philip on his
Grand Tour of Europe in 1548—51, and all but Requesens had also been with him
in England; the count of Olivares had been to England, fought in Italy and at St
Quentin, and carried out a diplomatic mission to France before becoming ambassador
in Rome, viceroy of Sicily and later Naples, and finally councillor of State;
Don Juan de Idiaquez had served five years as ambassador in Italy before becoming
secretary of state; the marquis of Almazan, an outspoken councillor of War, had
previously represented Philip at the imperial Court and served as viceroy of
Navarre; and Don Hernando de Toledo, another prominent councillor of War,
had visited England and Erance, fought in Flanders and Italy, and served as
viceroy of Catalonia. Francisco de Erasso, the duke of Alba and Cardinal Granvelle
had all acquired first-hand knowledge of almost every part of western Europe:
when the king sought advice in 1566 on the best way to travel from Spain to the
Netherlands, Granvelle described and assessed every possible itinerary, by both
land and sea, on the basis of his own personal experience.The king and his
councillors also possessed long institutional memories and frequently cited precedents
and examples from the past — sometimes going back several decades. When
in 1559 and again ten years later some suggested that France and Spain should
conquer England jointly and then partition it, the duke of Alba vetoed the idea
because ‘recent’ experience had shown that such arrangements would not work: he
referred to the treaty of Granada in 1500 concerning the partition the kingdom of
Naples between the two ‘superpowers’.^^
In addition, Philip set out systematically to collect new data about his possessions.
In 1559 he set up simultaneously a ‘General Visitation’ for each of his three
dominions in the Italian peninsula, partly in order to accumulate and collate
information about them. Shortly afterwards he launched three related projects
in his Spanish kingdoms. Eirst, he sent out the Dutch artist Anton van den
Wyngaerde to prepare a series of cityscapes: sixty-two finished views of some fifty
Spanish cities, and preparatory sketches for several more, have survived, all
executed from a slight elevation and in similar panoramic format (Plate lo)."^^
To set beside these urban images Philip commissioned a second project: a complete
map of the Iberian peninsula on an unprecedented scale. The principal
Plate lo A view of Barcelona in 1563 by Anton van den Wyngaerde. The Flemish ‘court painter’ van den
Wyngaerde came to Spain in 1561-62 and from then until his death in 1571 travelled around Spain and North
Africa painting city-scapes. Sixty-two ‘finished’ topographical views of cities and towns survive, of which
Barcelona (done, as the Latin inscription on the watchtower atop Montjuich states, ‘from life’) is one of the first.
Philip intended to have them engraved and published, presumably in some sort of atlas, but they became
scattered between Vienna, London and Oxford, remaining largely unknown until the nineteenth century.
Fortifications dominate Barcelona: the tenth-century walls, with the famous ‘Ramblas’ beyond, and the
fourteenth-century extension enclosing the Arrabal suburb. The impressive ‘Atarazanas’ (dockyards), where the
royal galleys were made and maintained, lie at the city’s southeastern corner.
cartographer, Pedro de Esquivel, professor of mathematics at the university of
Alcala de Henares and an expert in surveying, began work in the 1560s and, in the
somewhat gushing appraisal of a contemporary.
One could say without exaggeration that it was the most careful, diligent and
accurate description ever to be undertaken for any province since the creation
of the world . . . There is not an inch of ground in all of Spain that has not been
seen, walked over or trodden on by {Esquivel}, checking the accuracy of
everything (insofar as mathematical instruments make it possible) with his own
hands and eyes.
Esquivel left his work largely ‘completed when he died, and His Majesty has it in
his Chamber’."^^ This item today probably forms part of the remarkable atlas of
twenty-one maps now in the Escorial library, the first (and most complete) of
which covers the whole peninsula (Plate 11). The rest of the maps provide a series
of sectional surveys, all done to the same scale, in which Portugal is the best
covered and Aragon and Catalonia the worst. It is worth lingering over this
achievement because, on a scale of i: 430,000 (similar to that of standard aeronau-
Plate II The Escorial Atlas: map of the whole peninsula. In the 1570s and ’80s a team of cartographers led
first by Pedro de Esquivel and then by Joao Bautista de Lavanha and Juan Lopez de Velasco, surveyed the entire
iTCrian peninsula - almost 500,000 square kilometres - and portrayed the results in an atlas of twenty-one
sheets. The first map (shown here), although slightly skewed because the surveyors made no allowance for the
curvature of the earth’s surface, provided a remarkably accurate overview of the physical and urban geography of
TOth Spain and Portugal. The rest of the atlas contained the largest European maps of their day to be based on a
detailed ground survey.
tical charts today), the Escorial atlas contains by far the largest European maps of
their day to be based on a detailed ground survey. No other major western state
of the sixteenth century possessed anything like it, for where Apian’s map of
Bavaria, based on a survey carried out between 1554 and 1561, covered over
43jOOO square kilometres, and Secos map of Portugal (printed in 1560) covered
almost 90,000, the Escorial atlas covered an area of no less than 497,000.^^
The third of Philip’s geographic projects for Spain consisted of a series of
questionnaires, later known as the Relaciones topogvdficas^ sent out to various communities
in the 1570s. The idea seems to have originated with the royal chronicler,
Juan Paez de Castro, who prepared a list of questions to be sent to each
place in Castile requesting information about its geography, history, economy.
Plate 12 Juan Lopez de Velasco’s map of the Pacific. In Velasco, Philip s cosmographer and chronicler
of the Indies’, prepared a treatise containing all the knowledge — cartographic as well as written — on the location
of the ‘demarkation line’ established in 1494 to separate Portuguese from Spanish overseas possessions. In the
process, Velasco produced the first ever map of the western Pacific, running from Java to Japan. Although the map
displays latitudes with surprising accuracy, all longitudes are remarkably favorable to Spain; thus Malacca is ^
correctly shown just north of the Equator, but almost astride the 180 meridian (the line entitled demarcacion),
implying that everything to the west ‘belonged’ to Spain. In fact Malacca lies only 103 East, so everything shown
on this map actually ‘belonged’ to Portugal.
Plate 13 Disk recording the lunar eclipse of 17 November 1584- Velasco also played a key role in a project to
establish longitude, and so ‘fix’ the demarkation line in the eastern hemisphere. Materials to record the lunar
eclipse predicted for 17/18 November 1584 went out to various European cities and also to Mexico, Manilla and
possibly Macao in the hope that a comparison of the local times at which the eclipse began and ended, and the
moon’s precise elevation above the horizon, would reveal the difference — and thus the distance — between them.
On the night foretold, a team of astronomers in Mexico City duly recorded their observations on a series of disks
drawn to the precise size requested by Velasco; unfortunately for his plan, however, the eclipse had already
begun by the time the moon rose over Mexico, and in any case the clocks available were inaccurate. Fixing
longitude had to wait a further two centuries, until the invention of chronometers capable of keeping accurate
time at sea.
Distance: Public Enemy Number iP 63
population and ‘antiquities’ as a prelude to writing a detailed history and description
of the kingdom; but Paez died in 1570, before it could be distributed. Five
years later, however, Juan de Ovando, president of the councils of Finance and the
Indies and one of Philip’s most energetic ministers, sent a questionnaire based on
Paez’s list to all communities in New Castile. Returns for some 600 villages, and
for the city of Toledo, have survived in eight enormous manuscript volumes (at
least five more of them once existed)."*^ Ministers discussed extending the survey to
Aragon and Portugal.^^
At the same time, Ovando began to prepare similar questionnaires for the
various communities of Spanish America (37 questions in 1569, 200 in 1571, 135
in 1573) and also dispatched scientists - botanists, zoologists, herbalists and
cartographers (notably Francisco Dominguez) — to gather specimens, make drawings
of the flora and fauna, and prepare maps of Philip’s overseas possessions.^^ He
also commissioned Juan Lopez de Velasco, formerly Ovando’s secretary and now
‘royal cosmographer and chronicler of the Indies’, to compile two works - ‘A
geography and general description of the Indies’ and ‘A demarcation and division
of the Indies’ — which displayed in cartographic as well as written form all data
known about the western hemisphere. The two works, presented to the council of
the Indies in 1574—75, contained surprisingly accurate maps of the Americas
and the Caribbean, as well as the first map ever drawn of the western Pacific
(Plate 12).^*’
The results of the questionnaires and of the surveys proved disappointing,
however, and so in 1577 Lopez de Velasco decided to send out a simpler list of
fifty-five questions (printed this time) accompanied by a request for a map, a
description of each community and - most ambitious of all - a calculation of
longitude based on simultaneous observations of two predicted lunar eclipses.
Once again a great deal of data flowed in, with numerous detailed descriptions,
and almost 100 maps of individual communities.^* No one, however, succeeded in
calculating longitude — which the government desired both to improve cartographic
precision and, even more, to establish accurately the division between the
Portuguese and Spanish spheres of influence in east Asia (laid down by the treaty
of Tordesillas in 1494 but only fixed for the western hemisphere) — so Philip’s new
‘Academy of Mathematics’ organized one more attempt. Over the winter of 1582—
83, experts prepared a package of materials for observing the lunar eclipse forecast
for 17 November 1584 (including instructions on how to prepare recording disks
of the same size: see Plate 13) and sent them in advance not only to Antwerp,
Toledo and Seville, but also to Mexico City, Manila and perhaps even Macao.
To assure the accuracy of the observations they also sent the noted Valencian
astronomer Jaume Juan to Mexico well ahead of time in order to assemble the
necessary instruments and liaise with the local experts. On 17 November 1584,
right on schedule and with two clocks and a barrage of other instruments beside
them, Jaume Juan and his associates recorded their observations of the eclipse on
the roof of the archbishop’s palace in Mexico City.’^
Admittedly, these various ventures all failed to achieve the goals anticipated.
Plate 14 Map of Ixcatlan in Mexico. As ‘cosmographer and chronicler of the Indies’, Velasco was charged with
preparing a detailed survey — economic and natural as well as geographic and historical — of Spain’s American
possessions. In 1577 he therefore sent out a three-page printed questionnaire asking for the same information
from every community. Three of the fifty questions involved making maps: a sketch of the area showing the
layout of the streets and plazas, and the main buildings, plus (for towns by the sea) a map of the coast and of
the adjacent islands. Almost one hundred maps eventually came back, but only the few prepared by Europeans
familiar with the same cartographic conventions as Velasco proved usable. The superb map produced by the
corregidor of Santa Maria de Ixcatlan (Oaxaca province) looks just like an engraving, with ‘east’ clearly marked
at the top and the ‘Royal Road to Oaxaca’ crossing the river Alvarado and snaking among mountainous
communities (each one represented by a church).
Plate 15 Map ofMuchtitlan in Mexico. Most of the maps prepared in response to the 1577 questionnaire were
the work of native artists who used the cartographic conventions and ‘picture writing’ of the Aztec empire. Each
of the thirteen settlements of Muchtitlan (Guerrero province) is symbolized by a conventional building, together
with its name in both Spanish and image: thus at the lower left we find San Lucas Tepechocotlan, with a symbol
(probably the one imposed by the Aztecs when they conquered the area and imposed their tribute) that shows a
pot of fruit {xocotli) atop a hill (tepetl) - because Tepechocotlan means ‘Place of the fruit hill’ {-tlan means ‘place
of’ in Nahuatl). No doubt Velasco failed to make any sense of this — or of the seventy or so similar cartographic
representations by Nahua painters.
Distance: Public Enemy Number 1? 65
The king had been on the point of sending van den Wyngaerde’s cityscapes to the
Netherlands for engraving and publication when the Dutch Revolt broke out and
prevented him; the Atlas of Spain , like the detailed history and description to be
based on the Relaciones topogrdficas, remained incomplete and unpublished; in 1583
Francisco Dominguez had still not finished his maps of Mexico. In addition, much
of the data actually sent from America proved unintelligible — especially the
maps, most of them prepared by Indian cartographers who used unfamiliar
conventions (see Plates 14 and 15) — and even Jaume Juan failed to make usable
observations because, when the moon first became visible in Mexico, the eclipse
had already begun and so he could only record its end (furthermore, given the
inaccuracy of the clocks available, he could of course not be sure of the exact time
anyway).” Nevertheless, despite these shortcomings, the combined impact of the
various flows of information organized by Philip impressed everyone. In the awed
phrase of an observer at the Court of Spain in 1566, writing to his master in the
Netherlands. As Your Lordship knows, nothing happens there that is not immediately
known here’.”
W^hy, therefore, did Philip fail to translate so much knowledge — so much more
knowledge than any of his rivals possessed - into irresistible power? After all,
as Michel Foucault once observed: ‘Knowledge constantly induces the effects of
power ... It is not possible for power to be exercised without knowledge, it is
impossible for knowledge not to engender power.’ Yet Philip IPs own officials
made fun of his impotence, joking that ‘If we have to wait for death, let us hope
that it comes from Spain, for then it would never arrive’, and examples of (and
complaints about) the king s failure to take and communicate decisions abound in
the surviving records. In 1546, when Philip was barely twenty and had served as
regent of Spain for only three years, some complained that ‘he takes too long to
deal with business’, while in 1560 Philip’s secretary of state reported: ‘I have been
ill these past few days, but that has not prevented me from attending to business
punctually, since decisions are taken so slowly that even a cripple could keep up
with them . Five years later he became more specific, lamenting to a colleague that
the king s natural condition is never to decide anything’; and indeed at precisely
this time Philip deliberately refrained for six months from telling his regent in the
Netherlands that he wished her to follow a tough line against heresy (actually,
he scarcely wrote to her at all. In 1571 Don Luis de Requesens, then deputy
commander of the Mediterranean fleet, fretted that ‘the original sin of our Court
- which is never completing or doing anything at the right time - has grown
greatly . . . and is growing every day’. Four years later the same Requesens, now
struggling to suppress the Dutch Revolt at the head of an army of 80,000 men,
claimed that he had not heard directly from the king for nine months, and
protested that His Majesty delays so much in resolving all his affairs that he later
has to do so without sufficient time or thought .Foreign observers agreed.
According to the French ambassador in 1560, Philip’s decision ‘to be master,
minister and secretary at the same time is a great virtue, but it produces such
66
notable delays and confusion that all those who reside here to ask for something
are desperate’. A decade later his successor complained that ‘the decisions of the
Spanish Court are so uncertain and take so long that those who think they will
receive dispatches in a week will not get them within a month’. In 1577 the papal
secretary of state, waiting in vain for the king to commit his resources to a descent
upon Ireland, fumed that ‘The sole cause of this dilatoriness is His Majesty’s
irresolution’.^^
And yet Philip took scores of decisions each and every day throughout his long
reign. On 31 August 1566 for example (admittedly after a protracted period of
silence) a courier left Madrid carrying over 100 letters in French and Dutch from
the king to various members of his administration in the Netherlands, while
another courier carried additional letters in Spanish. A decade later Philip claimed
to have signed 400 letters at a single sitting; in 1587 he sometimes signed over
20 letters a day just on Armada business; and in spring 1588 the daily total rose
to almost 50.^^ Moreover he created or reformed no fewer than three archives
expressly to conserve the documents generated and needed by his administration:
while still regent of Spain for his father, he took steps to store state papers
systematically in the castle of Simancas for the crown of Castile (1545) and in a
purpose-built edifice in Barcelona for the crown of Aragon (1552); and in 1558 he
ordered an archive to be opened in ‘the church of St James of the Spaniards’ in
Rome to conserve all papal briefs and bulls in his favour. He also ensured that
both important and routine papers got deposited in these repositories where,
when need arose, his ministers could always consult or copy them.'^'^
Many explanations have been offered — both by his contemporaries and by
historians — for Philip’s notable delays in decision-making. The commonest one
advanced at the time concerned the king’s insistence on trying to do everything
himself. In 1584 Cardinal Granvelle, after working in Madrid for five years, often
in close contact with the king, complained bitterly that
I see in all matters these delays, so pernicious and in so many ways prejudicial
to our own affairs, including the most important ones, which become lost to
view with so much delay. And the reason is that His Majesty wants to do and
see everything, without trusting anyone else, busying himself with so many
petty details that he has no time left to resolve what matters most.
Somewhat later the papal nuncio in Spain complained that ‘His Majesty wants to
see and do every single thing himself, yet that would not be possible even if he had
ten hands and as many heads’. The most comprehensive indictment came in 1589
from Don Juan de Silva, who had served the king for over half a century as page,
soldier, ambassador and councillor:
We have known for years that the detailed attention that His Majesty devotes
to the most trifling things is a subject for regret, because when a man finds
things to do in order to avoid working, it is what we call a pastime; but when
The Context of Strategic Culture
he works in order to find things to do it cannot be given the name it deserves.
It is certainly true that His Majesty’s brain, although it must be the largest in
the world, like that of any other human being, is not capable of organizing the
multitude of his affairs without making some division between those that he
should deal with himself and those that he cannot avoid delegating to others.
It is equally true that His Majesty does not make this distinction . . . Instead he
leaves nothing entirely alone and takes from everyone the material that should
be delegated (concerning individuals and details), and so does not concentrate
on the general and the important because he finds them too tiring.
Warming to his theme, Don Juan continued:
Thus no one takes responsibility for the most important matters pending
between His Majesty and his ministers, and everything is decided at random,
casting our bread upon the waters but never getting any back. As a result we
spend time and effort in avoiding the measures that are needed, in taking them
when we lack time, money and opportunity, in making savings that cost three
times more than is saved, in starting in haste because we are late, and in starting
badly because we are in haste. Whoever does not see this must be blind.^'
But should these critics be believed? Some of them, after all, wrote in anger and
frustration: Granvelle by 1584 was an embittered old man who had been twice
brutally shunted from the centre to the periphery of power — once twenty years
before when Philip dismissed him as his chief minister in the Netherlands, and
again when the king’s return from Portugal in 1583 marginalized him; while
Silva in 1589 sulked on his country estates because the king had not rewarded him
as he felt he deserved.^^ The ambassadors, by definition, wrote in at least partial
ignorance of how Philip really governed. All of them resented the fact that he did
not concentrate on the matters of primary concern to them.
The king himself never denied the delays: not for nothing did he adopt as
his motto Yo con el tiempo (‘Time and I are a match for anyone ) and, in secret
correspondence, the codename ‘Fabius’ (after the Roman general who defeated
Hannibal by delaying tactics). When the general of the Jeronimite Order complained
in 1589 that an earlier letter to the king had not been answered, Philip
immediately took full responsibility and told his secretary: ‘The blame for the
delay is mine, because with the pressure of business I have not been able to see it
or order a reply. You had better tell the General this: that one cannot always do
what one wants. And when the king’s patronage secretary likewise complained
shortly afterwards that several papers sent some days before had not been returned,
yet again Philip accepted the blame: ‘I am very sorry that the pressure of business
should be such that it does not leave me time to see to these things, or many others
that I should, but I cannot manage any more. However, I shall do everything
possible.’ But the reason for the delays, however, was not inefficiency or ‘meddling’
(as Granvelle and Silva claimed) but the exact reverse: his ‘priority mail
Distance: Public Enemy Number i ? 67
68 The Context of Strategic Culture
system’ (p. 30 above). The king knew that he lacked the time to take care of
everything and therefore, with the aid of his secretaries, he took care of the most
important matters first. Placating a Jeronimite general and the patronage secretary
did not come high on the king’s list of priorities and so he put them off
Similarly, in the summer of 1588, when a grandee complained that he had
received no response to an earlier petition, Philip informed his secretary firmly
(albeit with characteristic prolixity):
You can tell him that you have reminded me [about this} several times, and
that I very much wanted to see it; but that getting the Armada in Portugal to
sea and related business have kept me, and still keep me, so busy that I have had
no time for it. In addition on some days I have been afflicted by gout (although
that would not have stopped me, only what I have just said), and much time
and trouble has been — and is still — necessary to amass all the money that has
been spent and still needs to be spent.
A few months later, the same secretary forwarded the first consultas of the new
president of the council of the Orders and begged the king to review at least some
of them ‘so as not to discourage him’, even though he realized that this would
be a considerable imposition, since so many consultas now awaited the king’s
attention — ‘they say in Madrid that Your Majesty has 800 here’. Philip replied
wearily that things were not nearly so bad, because only 300 consultas lay piled
up around his desk: he would review them as soon as he had dealt with more
urgent i• tems.64
A glance at the administrative methods adopted by recent occupants of the
White House to deal with the pressures of their office places Philip’s problems and
solutions in a useful perspective. According to one analyst:
A President’s own use of time, his allocation of his personal attention, is
governed by the things he has to do from day to day . . . [His] priorities are set
not by the relative importance of a task, but by the relative necessity for him to
do it. He deals first with the things that are required of him next. Deadlines
rule his personal agenda. In most days of his working week, most seasons of his
year, he meets deadlines enough to drain his energy and crowd his time
regardless of all else . . . What makes a deadline? The answer, very simply, is a
date or an event or both combined . . . Dates make deadlines in proportion to
their certainty; events make deadlines in proportion to their heat. Singly or
combined, approaching dates and rising heat start fires burning underneath the
White House. Trying to stop fires is what Presidents do first. It takes most of
their time.*^^
Thanks to the dedication of his secretaries and his ‘priority mail system’, Philip II
normally knew which ‘fires’ he had to stop. Why, then, did he sometimes fail to
act swiftly to put them out?
Distance: Public Enemy Number i P 69
Occasionally, especially in the first half of the reign, imperfections in the king’s
filing system caused delays. Thus in the summer of 1566, when Philip wished to
consider a report from the council of the Indies about the voyage of Miguel Lopez
de Legazpi to the Philippines, he could not find any maps to show him where the
islands were. Tell the councillors [of the Indies]’, he commanded his secretary,
Francisco de Erasso, with obvious irritation:
That they are to make every effort to find all the papers and charts which exist
on this, and to keep them safe in the council offices; indeed the originals should
be put in the archives at Simancas, and authenticated copies taken to the
council. I think that I have some [maps of the area] myself, and I tried to find
them when I was in Madrid the other day — because if I do have them, that is
where they will be. When I get back there, if I remember and if I have time
(which I don’t just now), I shall look again. Do you think you could find
something on this, Erasso? I would like you to search, and make sure that
anything you find is looked after as I have just said, with the council always in
possession of the copies.
A few years later the king wanted to find a copy of the holograph instructions
that his father had given him in 1543, ‘but I do not know if I have them,
or where they might be, nor do I have time to find them or 100,000 other
papers’. In 1576 having again temporarily mislaid some papers, the king
confessed that
I have been very careless today. Last night they brought me this file from
Fuenmayor [a treasury official] and this morning this other one from the
president of [the council of] the Orders. I put them on a desk where I had other
papers, so that I could see them later, but because I had many audiences, and
the rest of the files that I gave you, and lots of other papers that I signed earlier,
I forgot about them — so that even though we spoke this evening about
Fuenmayor’s paper, I did not remember them until now, when it is already nine
o’clock.
But then the king had a stroke of luck: ‘having just asked for dinner [to be served],
while taking a stroll, and walking near the desk, I happened to see them and read
them’. He returned the dossiers, with his decision, at once. One day in 1581,
however, Philip’s filing system completely failed him: he could locate neither a
copy of the letter he had written to his cousin Archduke Ferdinand of Tyrol
(‘although I must have done so, because he has written to acknowledge receiving
it’) nor the description of a machine to strike coins that the archduke’s agent had
given him (‘I thought he gave it to me along with other papers, but I cannot find
it’). He asked his secretary what to do next.^^ Nevertheless, just as a few dark
nights of the soul do not indicate a manic depressive (p. 45 above), so a few
misfiled papers and overdue letters scarcely indicate a terminally inefficient
bureaucrat — and, in any case, during the second half of the reign complaints about
lost papers dwindled.
A more serious cause of delay, again particularly in the first half of the reign,
stemmed from Philip’s deliberate decision during a crisis to do nothing for a
while. In the summer of 1565, for example, he tried to delay all major decisions
while he concentrated on defeating the Turkish assault on Malta; and an experienced
diplomat overseas, waiting in vain for instructions, petulantly observed: ‘As
for our master, everything is put off until the morrow, and the main decision
taken in everything is never to take a decision.’ The king himself agreed. When
Count Lamoral of Egmont arrived at Court in March with orders from the Brussels
government to ascertain the king’s intentions towards the Netherlands, just as
news arrived of the westward journey of the Turkish Grand Fleet, Philip deliberately
procrastinated: ‘I have drafted my answer in this way’, he told his secretary,
‘so that Egmont will not be able to force me into a decision . . . My intention, as
you will have gathered, is neither to resolve these demands of the count, nor to
disillusion him about them, for then he would worry us to death and we would
never be finished with him.’^^
Although profoundly frustrating for agents in the field, some delays in committing
resources during a crisis made sense, so that the king could benefit from the
best available information and thereby minimize the risk of error. ‘The premium
on haste’, as a modern analyst has observed, ‘is undoubtedly the greatest piece of
mischief that can be introduced onto military forces.’ In the words of another:
‘The fine art of executive decision consists in not deciding questions that are not
now pertinent, in not deciding prematurely, [and} in not making decisions that
cannot be made effective.’ Throughout the summer of I’yG'o, until news arrived
that Malta had been relieved, Philip put off decisions on all other matters, even
the Netherlands, because they ran a high risk of being irrelevant, premature and
ineffective.^^
As the reign advanced, however, the king seemed more willing to take risks.
Complaints from his subordinates abroad centred less on frustrating neglect and
increasingly on unwanted interference. Even in the early years, tensions appeared
between the evident need for delegation to his agents on the spot and Philip s
strong reluctance to relinquish control. Thus in i557> having heard that Florida
might be suitable for settlement, the king decided to rescind his earlier prohibition
on any new expeditions of discovery in the Americas and informed the viceroy
of New Spain, ‘On account of the great confidence that we have in your person, we
have decided to remit this matter to you, as the person on the spot, so that you can
see what it would be best to do for God’s service and mine, as well as for the good
of the country. Do whatever seems best to you in this.’ Similarly in 1569, as part
of an effort to bring ministerial overspending in the New World under control,
the king ordered that the amount of any payment made without a specific warrant
bearing his signature would be deducted from the viceroy’s personal salary; but
the folly of this soon became apparent — ‘Because you lack my order to do so, you
might not do what our service requires’ — and so the king reversed his policy two
-JO The Context of Strategic Culture 71
years later.^^Late in 1576, when all the information available to him suggested
that the Turkish navy would not sail west the following year, the king decided on
a drastic reduction in the galley fleet. Ministers prepared detailed instructions for
the Mediterranean commander on how to effect the ‘reformation’ but, as he signed
the final version, Philip experienced a twinge of doubt and added in his own
hand the crucial proviso: ‘Nevertheless, if this seems inappropriate to you, and
that diminishing our fleet now might call forth [that of} the enemy, you may
maintain it until the end of the summer’.
By the 1580s, once his information-gathering techniques had expanded,
lengthy delays tended to arise from the king’s insistence that he should take all
major decisions himself in the light of the unequalled wealth of data at his
disposal. As he strove to coordinate all the resources of his Monarchy for the
Armada campaign, for example, he urged his envoys abroad to provide a constant
stream of news, ‘because now is the time to advise me of everything minute by
minute’.The unprecedented torrent of information generated by such orders, all
of which he strove to review for himself, seems to have convinced Philip that he
really did have all the relevant data at his fingertips and that, although a given
theatre commander’s understanding of local circumstances might be second to
none, thanks to his unique information network he alone could appreciate the
overall position. In October 1587 he informed the marquis of Santa Cruz, commander
of the Armada, that ‘the success and failure of an enterprise is decided by
days and hours’ and urged him to ‘believe me as one who has complete information
on the present state of affairs in all areas’, so that under no circumstances
could any variation from his masterplan be permitted.^^ He stressed this even
more with Santa Cruz’s successor, Medina Sidonia. Even in mid-August 1588, a
week after the Armada had been worsted in battle and driven north into Scottish
waters, Philip continued to insist that the success of the enterprise depended upon
following his instructions to the letter. Only in mid-September (as the remnants
of the storm-tossed fleet approached the Spanish coast) did he relent: ministers
now drafted orders for Medina Sidonia to land in Scotland, ally with the local
Catholics and winter there.All this was of course nonsense. Philip did not —
could not - have ‘complete information on the present state of affairs in all areas’;
and, even had he somehow managed this feat, most of the information would have
been seriously out of date by the time he had communicated it to his theatre
commanders.
A third and final factor that slowed the pulse of the Spanish Monarchy stemmed
from Philip’s ‘zero defects mentality’ (p. 42 above). His insistence that ‘it is so
important that we get everything right’, combined with his desire to take
all important decisions himself, left no place for error. Before finally authorizing
any major action the king tried to ensure that everything was in perfect order.
Thus in 1571, as he waited anxiously for Spain’s Mediterranean fleet to put
to sea, Venetian ambassador Leonardo Dona noted with irritated fascination the
king’s insistence on having absolutely everything ready before starting the
campaign:
Distance: Public Enemy Number 1?
72 The Context of Strategic Culture
I see that, where naval warfare is concerned, every tiny detail takes up the
longest time and prevents voyages, because not having oars or sails ready, or
having insufficient quantities of ovens to bake biscuits, or the lack of just ten
trees or masts, on many occasions holds up for months on end the progress of
the fleet.
Perhaps worse still, once the last oar, sail, oven and mast had been assembled, the
king expected everything to happen like clockwork. As the duke of Medina
Sidonia put it in 1588, as he nervously led the Armada into the English Channel;
‘The plan is that the moment I arrive [off the coast of Flanders} the duke of Parma
should come out with his ships without making me wait for him for a moment.
On this depends the whole success of the campaign.This assumption was, of
course, wholly unreasonable given the limitations imposed by sixteenth-century
information technology.
It might be argued in his defence that Philip was only an ‘armchair’ strategist
since he had scarcely ever experienced war at first hand (not at all since 1558), and
so could not appreciate the truth of the axiom expressed by Helmut von Moltke,
chief of the Prussian General Staff in the mid-nineteenth century, that ‘no plan
survives contact with the enemy for more than twenty-four hours’. However,
many of Philip’s contemporaries displayed greater realism. Thus Elizabeth of
England and her advisers all shared the king’s practical ignorance of war, but they
certainly anticipated Moltke’s point. Elizabeth’s Instructions to Howard of
Effingham for the Armada campaign, for example, seem a model of prudence.
Having surveyed the various potential threats facing her realm, she concluded on
a tone very different from — and far more realistic than — Philip’s orders to Medina
Sidonia:
Lastly, forasmuch as ther may fall out many accidents that may moove you to
take another course than by these our instructions you are directed, we therfore
think it most expedient to refer you therin to your own judgement and
discretion, to doo that thing you may think may best tend to the advancement
of our service.
And her ministers realized — and on occasion gently reminded her — that ‘you
cannot thinke of all things at all times’.
Like all statesmen, Philip resembled the captain of a riverboat: he could maintain
steerage way only as long as his ship moved faster than the current. As the volume
of information demanding assessment and the number of decisions required of
him mounted, resolutions inevitably came more slowly. His insistence on acquiring
ever more data, and his illusion that this enabled — entitled — him to
micromanage operations throughout his global empire, paradoxically served to
diminish his control. He never seems to have grasped the need to recognize his
own limitations, especially during any crisis that expanded dramatically the
Distance: Public Enemy Number i ? 73
number of urgent decisions required, despite the fact that (in the words of an
eminent contemporary strategic analyst):
There is only so much that any human can absorb, digest and act upon in a
given period of time. The greater the stress, the more individuals will ignore or
misrepresent data, mistake and misconstrue information, and the greater will
be the prospects for confusion, disorientation and surprise . . . [Furthermore,}
the spatial and, essentially, the temporal distribution of information relevant to
decisions in war means that many key pieces will remain inaccessible at any
given place. Those who have held senior positions in corporations or military
services need only reflect on how much they did not know about what was
taking place in their own organizations to appreciate the reality of information
being temporally or spatially inaccessible.
In short, ‘More information from more sources, made available more quickly than
ever before, equals system overload . . . Processing and transmission technologies
far outstrip our ability to assimilate, sort and distribute information’.^^
And yet warnings about precisely this danger were readily to hand. Thanks to
the sermons to which he listened throughout his long life, Philip must have heard
more than once the lesson taught to the Hebrew leader Moses on the exodus from
Egypt to Palestine by his father-in-law Jethro. Attending to everything in person,
Jethro insisted, ‘is not right. You will tire yourself out, and the people with you,
for the work is too heavy for you. You cannot do it all alone.’ True; yet in
overlooking the significance of this text Philip by no means stood alone. To take
a striking later example, between 27 June and 3 August 1914, the governments
in St Petersburg, Berlin, Vienna, Paris and London generated between them at
least 6,000 documents assessing the growing international crisis, a total of well
over 1.5 million words — far too much to digest and master. Moreover the flow was
not uniform: the total of incoming messages from ambassadors to each of the five
foreign ministers rose from an average of four per day at the beginning of the crisis
to over forty at the end, and the number of messages exchanged directly between
the various heads of state increased from two per day to over twenty. The pressures
thus generated overwhelmed the decision-making structures of all the European
states and thus helped to plunge them into war.^
However, Philip II’s strategic planning did not suffer simply because he, like
the statesmen of 1914, accumulated more knowledge than could be assimilated,
sorted and absorbed in time; the real problem lay in the fact that his system of
government required all these processes to be carried out by the king in person.
Like Moses, Philip believed that he alone could mediate divine grace to his people
and handle all problems adequately. Although he ruled over a Monarchy composed
of so many different and dispersed territories, each with its own separate
identity and independent sentiments, he insisted that all the councils and juntas
at the centre — like the various ministers, institutions and corporations on the
periphery — should wait to receive their orders from the king in person. Inevitably,
74 The Context of Strategic Culture
even without crises, as the business generated by each organ increased, the
possibility that Philip would be able to play his designated role punctually
became ever more remote.
The consequent information overload — disposing of more data than could be
processed by a single brain - produced three problems for Philip’s Monarchy. At
the operational level, as already noted, it led to attempts at micromanagement.
These were clearly doomed to failure because, as John F. Guilmartin has written,
‘No amount of communications can replace a competent and responsible commander
on the scene. To attempt to do so is to invite disaster.Philip failed to
appreciate that ‘complete information on the present state of affairs in all areas’ —
even had he possessed it — still could not enable him to micromanage a complex
military operation from his distant headquarters. At the planning level, information
overload produced two further serious consequences. First, Philip sought
seclusion at least in part to increase the time available for the undistracted study
of the information that poured in; yet this sheltered him from the ‘real world’ to
a dangerous degree. Second, and far more deleterious, since no amount of time or
effort sufficed to digest the entire corpus of data available, the king evolved certain
strategies for selecting only those pieces of information that broadly corresponded
to the plan already adopted.
The attractions of maintaining harmony between one’s beliefs, actions and
reactions are obvious; mutual consistency helps every individual to interpret,
retain and recall information, and it confers continuity on behaviour patterns. Its
dangers, however, are equally apparent: it can create ‘cognitive rigidity’ in favour
of information consonant with decisions that have already been taken and against
any data that challenges them. The very fact that information compatible with the
existing plan will be used to confirm the choices already taken serves to inhibit the
development of alternative beliefs. To use a classic case, the conviction that an
adversary’s military preparations are merely bluff will delay the realization that
they are ‘for real’, because the two scenarios so closely resemble each other.*”
Finally, the search for consistency leads to flawed efforts to rationalize all policies
in terms of the favoured option: instead of seeing that the objective can only be
attained at the cost of sacrificing some other goals, all considerations are made to
support the chosen decision — indeed new justifications may be added later in
order to strengthen the case for the favoured policy and to make it seem the only
sensible choice.*^
Of course the evidence available to any statesman during a crisis usually
permits multiple interpretations — indeed, on occasion, the bulk of the evidence
may not support the correct explanation — and hunches and experience count for
much. Rulers who managed to make the right decision have often been just as
stubborn and biased as their less successful opponents. However, leaders in a state
of high stress — like Philip in 1587—88 — seem preternaturally disposed to accept
data that support their preconceived ideas and to avoid anything that contradicts
them, whether by banishing Cassandras from their courts, by dismissing or
75
ignoring dissenting reports, or (worst of all) by distorting all incoming information
so that it supports their previous assumptions.*^
Nevertheless, all statesmen need a theoretical structure, a frame of reference of
some kind, both to know the difference between what is right and what is merely
opportune, and in order to establish (and maintain) priorities and uphold broad
policies; otherwise ‘deadlines’ and ‘trying to stop fires’ will not leave time for
anything else. Part of that frame of reference comes from practical experience -
from prolonged exposure to the details of operation and of policy. But beliefs,
values and prejudices also play their part. The imperial vision imparted by his
father and an almost unshakable conviction that he was engaged in God’s work
helped Philip to interpret the unprecedented quantities of information at his
disposal, and to make his decisions. As the king once loftily observed to a
dispirited subordinate: ‘You are engaged in God’s service and in mine - which is
the same thing’: throughout his reign, Philip believed profoundly that God would
provide whatever lay beyond human powers of prediction or execution, and he
repeatedly counted upon miracles to bridge the gap between intention and
achievement, to fill the interstices in his strategic plans.*^ Furthermore, his passionate
faith encouraged the adoption of over-ambitious goals and created a sort
of ‘messianic imperialism’ that proved to be, at one and the same time, one of the
greatest strengths and one of the greatest weaknesses of his Grand Strategy.
Distance: Public Enemy Number 1 ?
t'..
yr
3 ‘With God on Our Side’
Although neither Philip II nor his ministers formulated their own ‘blueprint
for empire’, they certainly inherited one and regularly consulted it.
In January 1548 Philip’s father Charles V prepared a comprehensive review
of the problems that faced him and sent it to his 20-year-old son, then serving
as regent in Spain. The long document, sometimes known as Charles’s
‘Political Testament’, soon became well known in government circles. At
least twenty-eight manuscript copies survive and in 1600 the Spanish
ambassador in Savoy reminded his sovereign of ‘what His Majesty the emperor
said in the instructions that he gave the late king our lord [Philip II]’
and suggested that its strategic analysis still held good. Philip himself
referred respectfully to the various papers of advice that his father had given
him: ‘I remember a lesson that His Majesty [Charles] taught me very many
years ago,’ he told a councillor in 1559, ‘and things have gone well for me
when I followed it and very badly when I did not’; and as he began to
draw up instructions for his own successor in 1574, he sought to base them on
those ‘which the emperor wrote for me in his own hand.^ In 1606 Prudencio de
Sandoval printed the full text of Charles’s comprehensive review of imperial
Grand Strategy in his best-selling History of the life and deeds of the Emperor Charles
Charles began his ‘Political Testament’ by urging the prince to ‘submit all your
desires and actions to the will of God’ and to make the defence of the Catholic
faith his primary responsibility. He then regretted the cost of ‘the wars that I have
been forced to fight so many times and in so many places’ to defend the empire —
even though, he noted with a trace of smugness, ‘with God’s help (for which let
Him be thanked) I have conserved, defended and added other [lands] of great
quality and importance’. The primary need, therefore, was to assure them a period
of peace in which to recover. However,
Avoiding war and keeping it at bay is not always in the power of those who
want it . . . especially of those who rule realms as great and as numerous and as
far-flung as God, in His goodness, has given me and which, if He pleases, I shall
77
7 8 The Context of Strategic Culture
leave to you. Rather this depends on the good or ill will of neighbours and other
states.
The emperor then launched into an extended and highly perceptive survey of the
prevailing international situation and of the Grand Strategy best suited to preserve
Philip’s inheritance intact.^
‘Common sense and experience’, Charles began,
show that unless you watch and take the trouble to understand the actions of
other states and rulers, and maintain friends and informants in all areas, it will
be difficult if not impossible to live in peace, or to avoid, oppose, and remedy
anything that is attempted against you and your possessions . . . especially
since (as I have already noted) they are separated one from another, and the
object of envy."*
Therefore ‘your first and most secure friendship and trust’ must be with
Ferdinand, Charles’s brother and designated successor as Holy Roman Emperor.
On the one hand, his uncle Ferdinand would be a valuable councillor; on the
other, as emperor, his support would prove essential for Philip’s control over
northern Italy and the Low Countries — both imperial fiefs — and for the maintenance
of easy and secure communication between them. Philip followed this
advice meticulously. His correspondence with Ferdinand reveals a combination of
respect and affection, with both monarchs striving to pursue policies that, if not
always identical, were at least compatible; and when his uncle died, Philip
grieved.^ More than twenty years later Philip still remembered Ferdinand affectionately:
when a secretary sent him a document praising his uncle’s piety and
steadfastness for the faith, ‘because I thought Your Majesty would like to read it’,
the king scribbled enthusiastically: ‘I knew the Emperor Ferdinand. We spent
almost a year together, in 1551, at Augsburg in Germany, in the company of the
emperor my father, and I saw a lot of him because we got on very well.’^
The king’s memory had become selective, however. The Augsburg meeting to
which he referred in fact created serious discord in the house of Habsburg, for
Charles used bluster and threats in order to try and compel his brother first to
renounce his claim to succeed him as emperor in favour of Philip and then, when
that failed, to name Philip — rather than Ferdinand’s own son Maximilian — as
next in line (Tables 3a and b). Ferdinand eventually crumbled; but German public
opinion strongly opposed the deal and in 1555, after becoming king of England,
Philip formally renounced his claim to succeed his uncle.' No sooner had
Ferdinand gained the imperial title in 1558 than he reneged on another promise
extorted at Augsburg: to recognize Philip as his ‘imperial Vicar’ in Italy. Instead,
he now insisted that his deputy must reside in the peninsula, and although he
offered to confer the title ‘the moment His Highness goes to Italy’, both men
knew this remained an empty promise.^ In all other respects, however, Ferdinand
treated Philip ‘as one of his own sons’ and served as ‘the guarantor of peace and
Margaret of
Parma
^"^322-86)
Alexander
Farnese
(1545-92)
The family of Charles V
Charles V (1500-58) = (1526) Isabella of Portugal (1503-39)
1
Philip II Maria (1528—1606)
-------- T
Juana (1535-73)
—r
Ferdinand Don Juan
(1527-98) = (1548) = (1553) John of (1529-30) (1547-78)
[see below] Maximilian II Portugal
Sebastian
j----------------------
Giovanna
-------- j
Anna
(1554-78) (1573-1630) (1568-1628)
Anna Rudolf Ernest Matthias Wenceslas
(1549-80) (1552-1612) (1553-95) (1557-1619) (1558-78)
Maximilian Albert
(1558-1618) (1559-1621)
(i) Maria of Portugal
(m 1543-45)
The family of Philip II
Philip II (1527-98) =
(2) Mary Tudor (3) Elisabeth de Valois
(m 1554-58) (m 1560-68)
(4) Anna of Austria
(m 1570-80)
Isabella (1566—1633) Catalina (1567—97)
Don Carlos (1545-68) ~(i599) Albert of Habsburg =(1585) Charles of Savoy
1
Ferdinand
1
Carlos Lorenzo Diego
1
Philip III
1
Maria
(1571-78) (1573-75) (1575-82) (1578-1621) (1580-83)
Tables 3a and 3b In the sixteenth century the Habsburgs tended to produce either huge families or none at
all. Of the numerous children of Philip II’s sister Marfa and her husband Maximilian, only Anna had children;
and of Charles V’s other legitimate grandchildren only two, besides Anna, produced heirs: Catalina and
Philip III.
8o The Context of Strategic Culture
unity in the family’.^ For a time his successor Maximilian (emperor 1564-76)
seems to have recognized his older cousin and brother-in-law as the senior
member of the dynasty, entrusting to Philip the negotiation of marriage contracts
for two of his daughters - one to Charles IX of France, the other to Philip himself
— in 1569. The following year a Spanish minister wrote of ‘the fraternal feelings
between Your Majesty [Philip} and the emperor, obliging you to treat his affairs
as if they were your own’.^° All this changed dramatically in 1571 when Spanish
troops invaded the tiny imperial fief of Finale Figure (see p. 84 below).
Maximilian, who had not been consulted, first organized a diplomatic offensive to
force them out and then, far from naming Philip as his Vicar, began to maintain
agents of his own in Milan in order to watch over his interests in Italy and to keep
Spanish ambitions in check. Worse still, Maximilian repeatedly declined to assist
Philip after civil war broke out in the Netherlands in 1572, instead publicly
advising his cousin that he should make concessions to the Dutch rebels.“ His
sons proved even less cooperative: Matthias served, in open defiance of Philip, as
governor-general of the rebellious Netherlands provinces for four years (1577—
81), while Rudolf II (emperor 1576-1612) exploited Spain’s temporary weakness
in order to force Philip to negotiate with his Dutch rebels at a formal peace
conference in 1579. Close political cooperation between the two branches of the
family did not resume until the second decade of the seventeenth century.
The first prescription for stability in Charles’s ‘Political Testament’ thus did
not work out as planned; neither, initially, did the second. ‘You already know how
the present Pope, Paul III, has treated me,’ the emperor complained, and
expressed the hope that a change of pontiff would improve matters. He saw two
areas of potential conflict - papal claims to suzerainty over Naples and Sicily, and
the extensive royal rights of patronage over the church in Spain and the Americas
- and advised his heir to ‘behave with the submission that a good son of the
church should show, and without giving the popes any just cause for offence with
you. But do this without any prejudice to the pre-eminences, prosperity, and
peace of the said kingdoms.In other words, Philip should give nothing away.
However, not long after Philip succeeded his father in 1556 the new pope, Paul
IV, excommunicated him (and Charles) and declared war. The king felt outraged,
and complained loud and long to his uncle Ferdinand that the pope’s actions
lacked justification, reason and cause, as all the world has seen, because I have
not only given him no cause for this, but rather His Holiness owes me favour
and honour because of the way I have served and revered him and the Holy See,
both in bringing England back to the Faith and in everything else I could do.
This proved to be the nadir of Philip’s relations with the Papacy: in September
I557> after a campaign waged with exemplary restraint by the duke of Alba, Paul
IV agreed not to make war on Philip, or to assist others who did, and to refrain
from building further fortifications in the Papal States.After Paul’s death, the
king set about forging an alliance with Rome that would benefit both parties. He
‘With God on Our Side’ 81
began to provide substantial pensions and gifts to prominent cardinals (in 1562
Carlo Borromeo, the new pope s nephew, received Spanish benefices worth 15,000
ducats) and occasionally to the pontiff himself (in 1579 the pope allegedly
received a gift of 50,000 ducats when one of Philip’s leading advisers became a
cardinal). By 1591, 47 of the 70 cardinals pocketed a Spanish pension. The king
also supplied Rome with Sicilian grain and wine when necessary; and, at the
pope s request, he provided galleys to get rid of corsairs and (on one occasion) sent
troops to stifle a tax revolt. On the other hand, Philip regularly attempted to
prevent the election of a pope hostile to him, occasionally threatening to withhold
grain shipments and once (in 1590) even moving troops and galleys to the frontier
in order to influence the outcome of a conclave. ^ The Papal States had virtually
become a Spanish satellite.
In return for all this the king received many favours: the proceeds of heavy taxes
on the Spanish church (worth over i million ducats annually); approval of his
nominations to all major benefices in his dominions throughout Europe and the
Americas, prisoners from Roman gaols to serve on his galleys; even the creation of
Spanish saints, starting with Diego de Alcala in 1588 (fifteen of the twenty-seven
saints created over the following century were born subjects of the kings of Spain).
And yet, just as his father had commanded, he gave nothing away. During a
dispute with the pope over jurisdiction in Naples, the king wrote firmly to his
ambassador in Rome: In the rights that I have, and that my predecessors have
handed down to me, there will be no change’. Philip may not have received the
comprehensive support from Rome that he considered his due, but it was far more
than his father had ever got.^^
Charles s assessment of the secular powers of Italy in 1548 proved a model of
shrewdness. The emperor began by reviewing the history of his relations with the
six major independent states of the peninsula. The republic of Venice had previously
opposed Spain, he noted, but a treaty in 1529 had settled all earlier
differences and Charles exhorted his son to uphold its terms and ‘to keep good
friendship with [the Venetians}, favouring them as good allies as much as possible’.
In the same year, the dukes of Florence had become beholden to him when
imperial forces laid siege to their rebellious capital and (the following year)
restored the Medici to power; ever since, Charles noted, the dukes had been ‘very
solicitous for me and my affairs and he enjoined Philip to maintain good relations
with them too. Of the other major independent states, Ferrara’s allegiance seemed
less sure, for although the emperor had likewise intervened to uphold the integrity
of the duchy, its ruler was related to the French royal family; Mantua had
always been the emperor’s most loyal associate in Italy; and Lucca’s overriding
political goal lay in preserving the general peace of Italy. The republic of Genoa,
finally, constituted Spains most important ally in Italy, both because of its
economic ties with various Habsburg dominions, and because it permitted access
from Naples, Sicily, Sardinia and Spain to Lombardy, Germany and the Netherlands:
Philip must therefore do his utmost to preserve and strengthen the ties that
bound the Genoese government to him.^^
82
Philip followed his father’s advice faithfully and used a wide range of instruments
to preserve peace in the peninsula, to consolidate his power there, and to
stifle all initiatives by others because ‘The preservation, peace and grandeur of
Spain depends on the affairs of Italy being well ordered’.^* Since he lacked the
resources to achieve all his goals by force alone, Philip created a sophisticated and
complex ‘diplomatic system’ - perhaps the first of early modern times - in order
to maintain Spanish dominance in Italy. A series of marriage alliances helped to
retain Mantua within the Habsburg orbit: its Gonzaga dukes belonged to the
small number of dynasties from which the Habsburgs regularly chose their
spouses, and Philip ordered his agents in Italy to watch over Mantua’s interests ‘as
if they were our own ... on account of the great obligation we have to favour the
affairs of the said duke like our own’.^^ Commercial, political and strategic
considerations bound the patricians of Genoa equally tightly to Spain: 8o per cent
of the republic’s long-distance trade by sea involved Philip’s territories, while
Genoese merchant-bankers became deeply involved in his finances (by 1575 loans
to the king of Spain absorbed perhaps 40 per cent of the total wealth of the
Genoese aristocracy); and whenever the oligarchs who ran the republic encountered
opposition, whether from their own citizens (during the civil unrest of
1574—76) or from foreign powers (during the Corsican insurrection from 1559 to
1569) Philip rushed to their rescue. Spain maintained a permanent ambassador in
Genoa (others resided in Italy only in Rome, in Venice and, from 1570, in Turin),
to oversee its interests and (whenever required) to ensure the election of a favourable
Doge.^°
Mantua and Genoa, however, were only two among almost 300 ‘imperial fiefs’
in northern Italy. Most of them lay in the hands of sixty or so dynasties, which
Philip dominated by a combination of rewards and threats.On the reward side,
he could offer to transfer some adjacent Spanish territory to a loyal ally (as he
dangled the restitution of Piacenza before the duke of Parma and the cession of
certain fortresses in Tuscany before the duke of Florence) or to arrange a marriage
with a Habsburg princess (in 1585 Duke Charles Emmanuel of Savoy wed Philip’s
younger daughter Catalina). He could also subsidize the military endeavours of a
favoured client — Savoy, described as ‘the gateway and bastion of all the states that
His Majesty holds in Italy’, did particularly well: between 1582 and 1592 the
duke received some 700,000 ducats, and 66,000 annually for the rest of the reign.
Spain could even, if need arose, take a state under its formal protection.The king
also appointed members of Italy’s ruling families to prestigious executive posts in
the Monarchy: Vespasiano Gonzaga, duke of Sabbionetta, became viceroy of
(successively) Navarre, Valencia and Naples; Marco Antonio Colonna, from a
prominent Roman family, served a long term as viceroy of Sicily; Gian Andrea
Doria, head of Genoa’s dominant patrician family, commanded Spain’s Mediterranean
galley fleet and became a member of the council of State; Alexander
Farnese, prince and later duke of Parma, served as captain-general of the Army of
Flanders from 1578 to 1592.^^ Other members of Italy’s ruling families (particularly
heirs apparent) also resided for a time at the Court of Spain, where they
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘With God on Our Side’ 83
received both lavish entertainment and constant encouragement to see the world
through Spanish eyes — Alexander Farnese, for example, lived at Philip’s Court
between 1557 and 1566, in England and the Netherlands as well as in Spain. The
king could also offer a wide range of other rewards: pensions, presents, land, offices
and honours culminating in a knighthood of the Golden Fleece, the foremost
order of chivalry in Europe, whose members Philip (grand master of the order)
called ‘my cousin’.
All these devices aimed to preserve the ‘pax hispanica’ by peaceful means
because, in the words of one minister, should the Italian states ‘lose their respect
for words, it will be hard to regain it with deeds’.The king, therefore, also
maintained an extensive network of agents and spies throughout the peninsula,
suborned the servants of other rulers, and even resorted on occasion to assassination
in order to achieve his ends.^^ In addition, he regularly volunteered his
services as mediator in territorial disputes between the turbulent rulers of the
peninsula — especially those of his allies who hated each other — and exhorted
everyone to help preserve ‘the peace of Italy, without permitting changes that
might threaten its tranquillity’.^^ Thus in 1568—70, he backed Ferrara in a bitter
dispute with Rome, warning the pope that ‘conserving the peace that Italy enjoys
today was in everyone’s interests, and that [His] Majesty would not approve of
anyone starting a war’; while a decade later, when the ambassador of Ferrara
appeared in Madrid with ‘39 or 40 dossiers’ and a map to seek Spanish support for
a proposal to annex by force an area contested with the republic of Lucca, a royal
minister bluntly repeated that Spain ‘would not suffer anyone to disturb the peace
of Italy’ and offered binding arbitration instead.When in 1588 Philip’s son-inlaw
the duke of Savoy invaded and occupied the marquisate of Saluzzo, which by
law should have reverted to Henry III of France, Philip (taken by surprise) at first
ordered him to withdraw, in order to avoid jeopardizing the peace of Italy, and
only gave his approval after hearing that Henry had murdered the duke of Guise,
leader of the French Catholic League.
Naturally, like his father before him, Philip did not place his trust in diplomacy
alone. After all, many Italians longed for the return of an Italy ‘where no
prince could impose his will on another’, and the king took seriously any sign of
independence. In particular, the impressive new fortifications constructed by
various peninsular rulers caused him concern because, should war break out, they
might successfully resist a siege by Spanish forces. As a military engineer boasted
to the duke of Mantua, ‘When Your Excellency will have your city completely
fortified, you will be able to reply to those who ask “Who is your friend’’, “[I am
the] friend of God and the enemy of everyone else.’’ Against such potential
threats the Habsburgs constructed state-of-the-art fortifications in their own
dominions — Sicily, Naples, Sardinia and above all Milan — and maintained a small
but well-trained standing army in each, as well as squadrons of galleys in their
main Mediterranean ports. Charles’s ‘Political Testament’ urged Philip not to
neglect these defences: ‘Even though you will inherit large debts and exhausted
countries, and will need to look for savings wherever you can, you must not for
84
that reason avoid keeping at all times some Spanish garrisons in Italy,’ he warned,
because they offered the best defence against ‘outbreaks of war and attempts to
seize territory’. He also extolled the value of the fleets.Once again his son
hearkened and obeyed, although the cost did indeed plunge Naples and Milan (at
least) deep into debt: the treasury of the former ran a deficit in every year of
Philip s reign save one; that of the latter never broke even, despite constant
subsidies from Spain, Naples and Sicily.On the one hand, the king increased the
number of galleys maintained by his various Mediterranean states from 55 in
1562 to 155 in 1574, rendering his naval strength so overwhelming that several
Italian states (including Genoa, the Papacy and Savoy) virtually demilitarized
themselves, choosing to disband their own fleet and to rely instead on Philip’s
galleys for their defence.On the other hand, the king maintained substantial
forces in the numerous fortresses of the states directly under his rule. By 1572
seventeen towns in the duchy of Milan, which he and his ministers regarded as
‘the military core and boundary of all that His Majesty holds in Italy’, boasted
garrisons; so did a dozen outposts in friendly states beyond the frontiers of the
duchy. Despite its vulnerability, thanks to these powerful defences Milan served
as a secure marshalling yard for Philip’s resources in Europe, and its archives
bristle with transit permits for troops, weapons, armour and specie going to the
Mediterranean fleet, Germany and above all the Netherlands.^^
Philip regarded his Italian garrisons as a ‘rapid reaction force’ to deal with any
threat to his European interests. In 1567, for example, 10,000 Spanish veterans
previously stationed in Sicily, Naples, Sardinia and Milan marched over the Alps
to the Netherlands in order to restore order. New recruits from Spain took their
place. In 1571 these troops, now seasoned and experienced themselves, boarded
the galleys of both Philip and Venice and featured prominently at the victory of
Lepanto against the Turks.^^ More controversially, earlier that same year Spanish
units based in Lombardy also invaded and annexed the marquisate of Finale
Figure which, though small, possessed great strategic importance: it separated the
territories of the republic of Genoa; it could offer a Mediterranean port to the
neighbouring landlocked powers of Mantua, Savoy and Milan; and it might serve
as a valuable transalpine base for France. In 1566 the subjects of Finale had
rebelled against their ruler, and two years later the duke of Savoy took advantage
of the turmoil to annex some disputed villages along his border. Philip allowed
this to pass, but in 1571 intelligence reports indicated that France stood poised to
occupy the rest. Acting on direct orders from Madrid, the governor of Milan
launched a surprise attack and occupied Finale, allegedly to forestall a French
descent. Lacking the title ‘Imperial Vicar’, however, the king had to back down:
Emperor Maximilian mobilized almost all the independent states of Italy to
condemn Philip’s unauthorized initiative, compelling Spanish forces to withdraw.
^ The king never again used force against an imperial fief. When in 1574
one of Spain s clients pleaded for armed assistance, the new governor of Milan
declined: ‘However much power the king may possess,’ he wrote, ‘I cannot
persuade myself that it is either safe or sound (for us} to take up arms in Italy for
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘With God on Our Side’ 85
anybody’. And later that same year, when another minute independent territory
south of Milan erupted in rebellion against its ruler, Philip allowed the grand
duke of Tuscany to restore order, even though the Spanish governor of a nearby
fortress had already intervened with his troops.
Apart from these minor disturbances, no wars broke out in Italy for fifty years
after the peace of Cateau-Cambresis in 15 59 - in marked contrast to the preceding
and succeeding half-centuries. Part of the credit for this belongs to Philip’s pacific
policies, but equally it derived from the weakness of France. Even though the last
French garrisons abandoned Italy in 1574, France still constituted the greatest
potential threat to the Spanish system in the later sixteenth century, just as it had
in 1548 when Charles wrote his ‘Political Testament’. In that document, the
emperor claimed that he had always tried to live in peace with the French king,
and he advised his son to do the same. But, he continued (with an almost audible
sigh), the French had ‘made many peaces and truces with me, none of which they
kept — as is well-known — except during the periods when they could not renew
the war or wanted to wait for an opportunity to harm me clandestinely’. No
doubt, he mused, they would continue to do so, trying to regain the territories and
rights he had compelled them to renounce both in the Low Countries and in Italy.
(But} you must insist that the said renunciations shall remain for ever in being
and in force, and in no way depart from them, because I captured all of them,
and you will inherit and possess them, with full rights and evident justification.
And if you should show weakness in any part of this, it will open the door to
bringing everything back into question ... It will be better to hold on to
everything than to let yourself be forced later to defend the rest, and run the
risk of losing it. If your predecessors with the grace of God held on to Naples
and Sicily, and also the Low Countries, against the French, you should trust
that He will assist you to keep what you have inherited.
Apart from unswerving trust in God, the emperor saw only one practical solution
to the feud: for Philip to marry a French princess, and to make it a condition of
the match that France should evacuate the territories of the duke of Savoy,
occupied since 1536. Admittedly the available Valois princesses were all very
young but the emperor felt strongly that a way should be found to restore the
duke of Savoy, who had been his loyal ally, to his inheritance as part of any
permanent settlement, partly because of the duchy’s strategic situation linking
Lombardy and Franche-Comte, and partly ‘so that all will see and know that you
take the requisite care of your own security and of (your allies} too’.'^*’
Once again, the emperor’s words proved prophetic. Although it took another
decade of war, at the peace of Cateau-Cambresis in 1559 Philip did indeed force
the French to recognize all his rights and possessions in both the Low Countries
and Italy; he married Elisabeth de Valois immediately afterwards; and he also
secured the restoration of the duke of Savoy to his lands. Admittedly the French,
too, made gains from the treaty, but only from others: Calais from England, some
86 The Context of Strategic Culture
enclaves in Lorraine from the Holy Roman Empire, and a few fortified bases in
Savoy. Truly, wrote Cardinal Granvelle, ‘these peace negotiations have been
directed by God Himself because, although we have settled things so much to our
advantage, the French are delighted’.Philip had admirably fulfilled his father’s
stern command: he had gained a lasting peace, married his enemy’s daughter and
secured the restoration of his ally, but he had surrendered nothing.
For most of the next forty years France fell prey to religious conflict. Although
this paralysed Spain’s hereditary enemy, and thus vastly improved Philip’s overall
strategic position, the king still felt threatened by the military power and the
undisguised hostility of the French Protestants. As he put it in 1562:
Neither the service of God, which is the most important service, nor my own
and the welfare of my states, will allow me to neglect helping the Catholics [in
France]. I know well that something will be risked in this, but certainly much
more will be risked in allowing the heretics to prevail; for if they do, we may
be certain that all their endeavours will be directed against me and my states.
Five years later he gloomily observed, the flames are spreading everywhere, so
that if the [French] monarchy does not make haste to put them out they may be
consumed by the fire’, and thence they might spread to Spain. He twice sent
troops to fight for his brother-in-law, Charles The disintegration of royal
power in France during the 1570s, and the fear that the crown now lacked the will
as well as the means to extirpate heresy, led Philip to subsidize the leading
Catholic magnates. As a Spanish grandee noted: ‘The wars in France bring peace
for Spain, and peace in Spain brings war for France - thanks to our ducats.’ After
1585 money flowed regularly to the French Catholic League and, after the
assassination of the childless Henry III in 1589^ Philip once again sent in troops.
This time they stayed, and the king used their presence (albeit maladroitly) to try
and persuade the Catholics to accept his daughter Isabella (Henry’s eldest niece)
as sovereign, in preference to the Protestant leader Henry of Navarre; but after
three years of open war he had to admit defeat. As a Spanish minister at the
end of his reign put it, ‘if one wished to compare [the Monarchy] with a
human body, then France would be its heart’. Philip had failed to exploit the
advantages afforded him by four decades of civil wars: France remained as threatening
in 1598 as it had been when Charles composed his political testament fifty
years before."*^
The emperor concluded his Instructions with a rapid review of other strategic
concerns. He recommended that good relations should be maintained with Portugal
and England, while the king of Denmark - even though his father had deposed
Charles’s brother-in-law and usurped his throne - should be left to rule in peace.
Once more Philip obeyed: in 1554, after complicated negotiations, he married
Mary Tudor and became king of England, then for a decade after her death in
1558 he protected her sister and successor Elizabeth (see Chapter 5); he also
offered close support to his young Portuguese nephew, Sebastian, and after his
‘With God on Our Side’ 87
death in 1578 secured the throne for himself and his heirs. For the first time in
many centuries a single monarch ruled the entire Iberian peninsula. In the Baltic,
Philip played off Poland, Denmark and Sweden in order both to safeguard an
adequate supply of grain to his dominions when needed and (after 1572) to
minimize support in the region for his Dutch rebels.^^ On all these counts, yet
again Charles would have been proud of his son.
The emperors Political Testament perceived only three areas of special difficulty.
First, Charles fretted about the manner in which the indigenous population
of his American colonies had been subjugated by their conquerors: his son must
strive to find a balance between ‘your royal pre-eminence, and the best interests’
of the various groups of inhabitants on the other continent.^’ Second, he worried
even more about the lack of resources to defend his far-flung possessions: all his
realms had paid heavily for his previous wars and could not be expected to
continue contributing taxes at the same high levels. This problem was not new -
Charles s Instructions to Philip in 1543 had warned that ‘Your treasury will be in
such a state [when you succeed me] that it will give you a lot of trouble’ - but
matters deteriorated rapidly. When he abdicated, Charles left short-term debts
of 7 million ducats (almost seven times the annual revenues of Castile) bearing
interest payments that absorbed all available income.
Two factors later exacerbated these fiscal problems. On the one hand, Philip’s
realms enjoyed complete peace for only six months during his entire forty-twoyear
reign (in 1577), and for much of the time he fought on more than one front
- against the Turks and the Dutch (1572-77); against the English and Dutch
(1585-89); against the English and Dutch and in France (1589-98) (see Figure i
above). On the other hand, the cost of fighting in all theatres constantly increased:
military expenditure rose dramatically not only because the number of troops,
warships and fortifications financed by Philip II grew, but also because of general
price inflation. Looking back in the 1590s, a senior military administrator
observed:
If comparison were made between the present cost to His Majesty of the troops
who serve in his armies and navies, and the cost of those of the Emperor Charles
V, it will be found that, for an equal number of men, three times as much
money is necessary today as used to be spent then.
The military budget accordingly increased prodigiously: defeating the German
Protestants in 1546—47 required scarcely i million ducats from Spain, but the
army deployed in the Netherlands against France in 1552-59 absorbed 2 million
each year, and the Army of Flanders in the 1590s cost almost 3 million annually.
In 1557 Philip therefore took the dramatic step of suspending all payments from
his treasury (a measure often called a decree of bankruptcy ) and began to discuss
rescheduling debt repayments. Three years later, upon finding that the obligations
of the Castilian treasury totalled 29 million ducats, he did the same again;
but government borrowing once more began to spiral until in 1574 treasury
88 The Context of Strategic Culture
officials in Castile estimated total debts and liabilities at 8i million ducats, a sum
equivalent to almost fifteen times the total annual revenue. The following year,
Philip again suspended all payments and began negotiations with his bankers for
a new rescheduling of his debts. In 1596 he repeated the process a fourth time."*^
Admittedly these ‘decrees of bankruptcy’ affected only Castile - the treasury of
Naples, for example, continued to make payments throughout the reign, even
though its debts increased fourfold - but since Castile served as the financial
motor of the entire Monarchy, its periodic fiscal collapses had serious repercussions
on the king’s Grand Strategy. Thus in 1559, Philip’s decision to return to
Spain despite the precarious political situation in northern Europe (see pp. 150—
I below) stemmed principally from the financial crisis that threatened to engulf
him: We must all seek the remedy,’ he told his ministers, ‘as I shall do to the
utmost of my ability. And since it is not here {in the Netherlands} I shall go to
Spain to seek it.’^° The suspension of payments in 1575 immediately doomed the
efforts of Philip’s armies to crush the Dutch Revolt, for without the services of
international bankers
Even if the king found himself with ten millions in gold and wanted to send it
all here, he has no way of doing so with this bankruptcy decree, because if the
money were sent by sea in specie it would be lost, and it is impossible to send
it by letters of exchange as hitherto because no merchant there {in Spain] can
issue them, nor can anyone here {in the Low Countries] accept and pay them.
Within six months the soldiers of the Army of Flanders, starved of their pay, had
indeed either mutinied or deserted; and within a year the king’s representative
had been forced to accept a treaty of peace with the rebels.The bankruptcy of
1596 likewise undermined Spain’s simultaneous attempts to defeat Henry IV of
France, Elizabeth of England and the Dutch Republic.Credit problems may not
have forced Philip to sue for peace immediately, and indeed he occasionally
boasted that he would never compromise simply because of lack of funds;
nevertheless bankruptcy eventually induced him at least to open talks - in 1558-
59 with the Turks and French; in 1576-77 with the Turks and Dutch; and in
I597“98 with the French, English and Dutch.
A third and last problem perplexed Charles in 1548: the future of the Low
Countries, his native land. Although he had completely crushed his opponents in
the region by then, the extreme distaste of the provinces for foreign rule, and the
evident difficulty of governing them from Spain, nevertheless caused him anxiety.
He therefore contemplated making Philip’s sister Marfa and her husband,
Ferdinand’s son Maximilian, joint rulers of the Netherlands. The provinces would
thus be linked to the Holy Roman Empire, freeing Spain of the need to defend
them; but he promised Philip that he would not make a final decision ‘until you
can come here, and see the country for yourself’.’"*
The possibility of severing the link between Spain and the Netherlands had
already been considered in 15445 when Charles promised to marry his daughter
‘With God on Our Side’ 89
Maria to Francis I’s younger son, the duke of Orleans, as a means of securing a
more lasting peace between Habsburg and Valois, with either Lombardy or the
Low Countries serving as Maria’s dowry. Only the sudden death of Orleans solved
the dilemma. The ‘devolution plan’ of 1548 also remained a dead letter. Admittedly,
fifty years later, Philip implemented exactly the same scheme in favour of
Marfa and Maximilian’s youngest son Albert, who was married to his own
daughter Isabella, but by then it was too late: major rebellions had rocked the
Netherlands in 1566 and again in 1572 and 1576, so that by 1598 only ten of the
seventeen provinces remained under Spanish control.
The emperor’s hesitation in alienating the Netherlands stemmed mainly from
strategic considerations. As many of Charles’s councillors had reminded him in
1544,^ the Low Countries ‘play an essential role in keeping the king of France in
check ; and, as Charles had insisted earlier in his ‘Political Testament,’ surrendering
anything to anyone might compromise ‘reputation’; he also feared that ceding
one possession might well lead to unrest in others.’^ All three arguments resurfaced
repeatedly during his son’s reign (and after). ‘I am well aware’, Philip wrote
in 1558, that It IS from the Netherlands that the king of France can best be
attacked and forced into peace’; in 1582 Philip’s principal adviser on foreign
affairs repeated that ‘The surest means we have of keeping France in check is to
maintain strong forces in the Netherlands’; and even after devolving power
m Albert and Isabella, the Spanish council of State emphasized that the Low
Countries still served as ‘the bridle with which to check and restrain the power of
the French, the English and the Dutch, whose forces, should that shield fail,
would attack Your Majesty and his kingdoms on ail sides, which would produce
even greater expenses and damage’.”
Likewise the risk of losing ‘reputation’, whether through failing to make good
a claim or by making concessions, worried Philip as much as his father. Thus in
1373 the king decided to continue to fight against the Turks in the Mediterranean
despite the defection of his principal ally, Venice, because to sue for peace would
lose the common esteem of the world’. Four years later his ministers advised him
that negotiations with the Dutch rebels were incompatible ‘with the honour and
reputation of Your Majesty, which is your greatest asset’: anything but war would
strain Your Majesty’s conscience and hazard your honour and prestige’.’® Yet
again in 1588-89 Spain refused to make peace with its northern adversaries in the
wake of the Armada’s failure: concerning England, one councillor ‘welcomed
the indications that His Majesty wishes to invade again, because I consider trying
to recover the reputation and authority that may have been compromised by
the outcome of the recent enterprise to be of great importance’; concerning the
Dutch, even though ‘to attempt to conquer the rebellious provinces by force
IS to speak of a war without end’, the king’s senior advisers saw no alternative
ecause Christian obligation requires the preservation of one’s reputation
inviolate’.
Charles’s argument that weakness in one area would sooner or later compromise
his son’s hold elsewhere also resurfaced frequently in later years. In 1558, just after
90
the death of his wife Mary Tudor, a councillor admonished the king that if he
failed to retain England, ‘the Low Countries, and in consequence Italy and the
Americas, would stand in great danger of being lost’; shortly afterwards, with
England already moving out of the Habsburg orbit, another minister repeated
that if he lost the Low Countries, Philip’s other possessions - in the Americas and
the Mediterranean, as well as in the Iberian peninsula - would at once come under
attack by land and sea.^^’ In 1566, with disorder spreading throughout the
Netherlands, a minister in Rome warned that ‘All Italy is plainly saying that if the
rebellion in the Low Countries is allowed to continue, Lombardy and Naples will
follow’. The council of State in Madrid accepted the argument totally: ‘If the
Netherlands situation is not remedied’, it warned, ‘it will bring about the loss of
Spain and all the rest’. Many others - by no means all of them Philip’s officials -
subscribed to this ‘domino theory’. According to the papal secretary of state in
1567, ‘If the Netherlands are lost, Spain will enjoy neither peace nor security, so
that the true and perhaps the only way to secure Spain and also the other states [of
His Majesty} is to make the supreme and ultimate effort to cure the Netherlands
[problem} now’. ‘There is a danger that Milan, Naples and Sicily will rebel, seeing
such a terrible storm in the Netherlands,’ echoed the French ambassador in
Madrid. A few years later the governor of Milan warned: ‘I greatly fear that the
Netherlands will in the end be lost, and with that everywhere else will rebel’.^^
Before long even Philip’s chief financial adviser argued that Spain must fight on
in both the Mediterranean and the Netherlands, despite the intolerable strain on
the treasury, ‘in order to restrain and defeat our Muslim and Protestant enemies,
because it is certain that if we do not defeat them, they are going to defeat us’;
while the king himself came to fear that ‘If the Low Countries are lost, the rest [of
the Monarchy} will not last long’.*^^
When in 1577 Philip’s councillors once more discussed whether to fight in the
Netherlands or to make concessions in order to secure peace, they again warned
that clemency would be taken for weakness and would ‘put at risk the obedience
of other vassals who, it is greatly to be feared, would take it as an example to rebel
themselves’.Shortly after Philip’s death, the council of State advised his son and
successor that ‘the security of the rest of Your Majesty’s kingdoms depends in
large measure upon the conservation of the “obedient provinces’’ [in the Netherlands}
and the recovery of those that have rebelled’; and that abandoning the Low
Countries ‘in a way that suggested to the world that we lacked the forces to keep
them, would cause others to lose respect’, so that the king’s opponents in Italy,
Portugal, Aragon and even Castile ‘would reveal their evil intentions, which
perhaps they refrain from showing only through fear of punishment’. Finally in
1605, according to a veteran councillor, ‘the conservation of the Netherlands is so
essential that, if they are lost, I greatly fear that the Monarchy of Spain will not
l, ong survi. ve , .64
Philip II’s Grand Strategy was not entirely predicated on the guidelines laid
down in his father’s reign, however. To begin with, Italy and the Netherlands
ceased to form the centre of gravity. Philip’s decision in 1559 to locate his
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘With God on Our Side’ 91
headquarters in Spain reflected the fact that the financial, economic and human
resources of the peninsula, and of its American colonies, had become the mainstay
of his power; and as time passed his dependence on them increased. Writing only
a year after the move south, a former Spanish ambassador in England complained
that ‘Every week it is necessary to remind people [here} that there are other
kingdoms and states that depend on us, and we on them.’ By 1564, however, the
perspective of most courtiers had changed. Refuting those who urged the king to
return to the Netherlands, Secretary of State Gonzalo Perez compared the Spanish
Monarchy to the human body and asserted: ‘We must all thoroughly understand
that since [Spain} is the principal member from which we must cure and restore
all the others, I do not know how His Majesty could leave it.’ Six years later the
king’s speech to the Cortes of Castile reassured the assembly that ‘His Majesty
[knows} how necessary and convenient his presence is in these kingdoms not only
for their own good and advantage, but also to act and provide for [the needs of}
the other states, since these kingdoms are the centre, the heart and the principal
part of all his dominions’. Nevertheless, some ministers continued to insist that
the Monarchy remained a distinct political entity with priorities of its own that
transcended those of the individual components. Thus in 1573, when a group of
cardinals pressed Philip either to reside in Italy, to direct the campaign against
the Turks, or in the Netherlands, to supervise the conduct of the war there, his
ambassador in Rome (Don Juan de Zuniga) reminded them that
Since Your Majesty rules so many kingdoms and states, and since in their
conservation and in the life and well-being of Your Majesty reposes the entire
welfare of Christendom, it is not enough to believe that the journey should be
of benefit to the affairs of either Italy or the Netherlands if it is not of benefit
to the entire global empire which depends on Your Majesty.
Zuniga had pinpointed a source of tension that affected several early modern
states formed by the union (often dynastic) of a number of previously independent
components: although the strategic priorities of the most powerful state eclipsed
those of other regions, it seldom effaced them. Admittedly ‘sub-imperialism’
never became as potent under Philip II as during the reign of his son, when
powerful proconsuls initiated policies that served the interests of the region they
governed rather than of Castile or of the Monarchy as a whole, but it remained a
force to be reckoned with. Some powerful viceroys occasionally involved the king
in a policy that could produce only local benefit (such as the Djerba expedition of
1560, earnestly desired by the viceroy of Sicily: see pp. 118 and 152 below); rather
more of them managed to undermine royal initiatives that did not coincide with
regional interests (thus the governor of Milan resisted Philip’s explicit commands
to expel all Jews from the duchy for over a year in the 1590s: see p. 277 below).
The various regents in Brussels proved particularly adept at pursuing a regional
strategy. Thus between 1569 and 1571 the duke of Alba disagreed fundamentally
with Philip’s desire to overthrow Elizabeth of England, which ran counter to the
92
economic and political interests of the Netherlands, and deployed a remarkable
array of devices to thwart the king (pp. 157—63 below).
Nevertheless, although this disharmony between the strategic interests of the
major components of the Monarchy sometimes undermined effective policymaking,
Philip’s Grand Strategy increasingly reflected the traditional foreign
policy goals of Spain. First and most obvious among these lay the absolute
conviction that the interests of the Iberian peninsula must take precedence over all
others. As one councillor starkly observed during the Portuguese succession crisis
of 1578-80: ‘In terms of the utility, the good and the strength of Spain, and of the
grandeur and power of Your Majesty, uniting the crowns of Portugal and Castile
matters more than the reconquest of the Netherlands’; and during these years the
funds sent from Spain to the Low Countries duly plummeted.^^ In 1592, following
the rebellion of Aragon, another adviser reminded Philip that ‘Spain is the
centre and the heart of this great Monarchy’, and that any problem in the
peninsula should be given top priority, ‘because if Spain holds firm, the Indies and
the other dominions of Your Majesty will be [automatically} preserved’.^^
Second among Spain’s traditional strategic goals came a determination to
defend the Catholic church against all enemies, both inside and outside Europe.
This committed Philip - who inherited the title ‘king of Jerusalem’ from
Ferdinand of Aragon — to ‘use our forces and power against the infidel’, turning
back the Muslim tide in the Mediterranean and protecting (if not extending) the
remaining Christian outposts of the East. In 1559, although he made a favourable
peace with France, Philip bungled negotiations with the Ottoman Turks for a
truce, and for the next eighteen years he placed the defence of the Mediterranean
above all other foreign obligations.^^ Even the outbreak of rebellion in the Netherlands
failed to change this key strategic choice - although the duke of Alba and
others protested loud and long that peace should be made with the Turks in order
to concentrate on internal enemies. To the duke, crushing heresy seemed more
important than defeating the infidel, but the king did not agree. Although his
agents secured a lasting truce with the sultan in 1578, until the end of his reign
Philip continued to seek ways to abase the Turks, welcoming imaginative (if
fruitless) attempts to coordinate operations with other enemies of the Ottomans in
the Middle East and the Balkans.
Philip, like his father before him, also opposed Protestantism as strenuously
and unequivocally as he opposed Islam. In 1566 he reminded the pope of ‘the
great and numerous obligations and burdens that I bear in the maintenance and
protection of my kingdoms, in the continuous war that I wage against the infidel,
and in the defence of Christendom and the public cause of the Catholic religion’.^'
On several occasions Philip declared himself ready to sacrifice all his dominions,
if necessary, rather than imperil the integrity of the Catholic faith. ‘Above all
things I entrust matters of religion to your care,’ he informed his chief minister in
the Netherlands in 1560, ‘because you can see how necessary it is, and how few
people in this world watch out for it. And so the few of us who remain must take
greater care of Christendom, and if necessary we will lose everything in order to
The Context of Strategic Culture ‘With God on Our Side’ 93
do what we should in this’. Six years later he assured the pope that ‘rather than
suffer the least damage to the Catholic church and God’s service I will lose all my
states, and a hundred lives if I had them’. In 1585 the king’s resolve remained
unshaken:
[Although] I hope that Our Lord, in whose service this war [in the Netherlands]
has been waged and sustained at the cost of so much blood and
money . . . , will arrange things with His divine providence, either through war
or negotiation, so that the world will know, by the happy outcome, the fruit of
trusting in Him, always keeping before us this firm resolve; nevertheless,
should God be pleased to permit another outcome, for our sins, it would be
better to spend everything in His cause and service, than for any reason to
waver.
In 1590 Philip lamented that the debts he had already incurred for ‘the defence
of our holy faith and the conservation of my kingdoms and lordships’ would
increase further with ‘the war with England and the events in France, which I
could not — and cannot — neglect, because I have such a special obligation to God
and the world to deal with them; and also because if the heretics prevail (which
I hope God will not permit) it might open the door to worse damage and danger,
and we shall have war at home’. A few months later, when a minister made an
impassioned plea for the king to cut back on his wars in France, the Netherlands
and the Atlantic, Philip reminded him that ‘These are not matters that can be
dropped . . . because they involve the cause of religion, which must take precedence
over everything.
He felt strongly that other Catholic rulers should show similar firmness.
Throughout the 1560s he worried that Charles IX of France and his advisers ‘are
headed for the worst possible destination, which is a deal with their rebellious
subjects’ and constantly exhorted them to take a firm line against heresy. Philip
also warned his cousin Maximilian (whose policy of religious moderation as Holy
Roman Emperor he found alarming) that ‘To believe that a passion as great as the
one which surrounds the choice of religion . . . can be settled by gentleness and
concessions, or by other means that avoid firmness and punishment, is to be
greatly deceived’. According to Philip, the threat (at least) of force should always
be present.
Behind these uncompromising assertions that religious principle should always
prevail over political calculation lay a distinctive political philosophy which
might be termed ‘messianic imperialism’. At its simplest level, it meant that (as
the statements above make clear) Philip felt that he possessed a direct mandate to
uphold the Catholic faith at almost all times and in almost all places. Many of his
subjects agreed. Thus Luis Cabrera de Cordoba prefaced his History of Philip II,
king of Spain (Madrid, 1619) with a splendid engraving of the king in armour
(and garters) defending the figure of ‘religion’ with his sword: the motto reads
Plate 16 Frontispiece of Luis
Cabrera de Cordoba, Historia de Felipe
II, rey de Espana. The first part of
Cabrera’s study appeared in 1619,
providing the best account available
of Philip’s life and reign written by a
contemporary. The author, who (like
his father before him) had attended
on the king personally, portrayed
him throughout as defender of the
faith — starting with the image on
the first page. Here Philip in armour
has drawn his sword to protect the
Virgin Mary, who carries a cross and
chalice, with the Escorial in the
background. ‘Religion is the highest
priority’ proclaims the epigraph.
Plate 17 Spanish writers long continued
to portray the king as defender of the faith.
Fray Caspar de San Agustin’s The conquest
of the Philippine Islands, the secular by the
arms of King Philip II, the Prudent, and the
spiritual by the friars of the Order of St
Augustine, first published in 1698, showed
the king leading his conquistadors while St
Augustine advances with his friars. At the
centre we see not only the Philippines but
also Borneo, China and Siam, which the
Order also aspired to win for the Catholic
church. A ray of Divine light falls upon
Philip, with crown and sceptre, and the
sun shines on his empire.
‘With God on Our Side’ 95
Plate 18 An illustration
from Jose de Rivera
Bernardez’s urban history of
1732, Brief description of the
very noble and loyal town of
Zacatecas, likewise showed
the king (left) with the first
settlers of the city (right).
They hold a globe marked
‘Philippus IF, beneath the
sun and moon (which never
set on the Spanish empire).
The Virgin Mary protects
and oversees the enterprise
and the motto proclaims
‘Work conquers all’.
SUMA RATIO PRO RELIGIONE (‘Religion is the highest priority’: see Plate 16).
Artists often showed Philip in direct communion with God, either at prayer (El
Grecos Dream of Philip II and Pompeo Leoni’s fine sculpture of him kneeling
before the altar in the basilica at the Escorial), interceding for the dead (Titian’s
Gloria and El Greco s Burial of the count of Orgaz), making an ostentatious sacrifice
to God (Titian s Offering of Philip II), or merely displaying some reminder of his
piety (as with his rosary in Sophanisba Anguisciola’s Prado portrait of the late
i570s)/^
These works of art — although few people saw most of them — formed part of a
powerful propaganda exercise. Whenever the king went on progress, triumphal
arches and cheap prints portrayed his ‘sacred majesty’, while sermons and medals
celebrated the achievements conferred on him by Providence (see Plate 2 above).
Even a century later, published chronicles of Spanish expansion — including Fray
Gaspar de San Agustin’s account of the conquest of the Philippines in 1698 (Plate
17) and Jose de Rivera Bernardez s history of Zacatecas in New Spain in 1732
(Plate 18) - still explicitly represented the king receiving direct divine assistance
as he carried out God s purpose.Philip seems to have eschewed only written
polemics to advance or justify his cause, and the few efforts made on his behalf
usually fell flat: thus an answer to W’illiam of Orange’s blistering attack on the
king’s methods and morals perished almost without trace (only one copy of the
anonymous Antiapologia has survived, as against five French, two Dutch, one
English, one Latin and one German editions of Orange’s Apology in 1581 alone).
Philip authorized only one official publication about the Armada, a somewhat
austere list of all the ships, stores, troops and ‘celebrities’ recorded in the last
muster before the fleet left Lisbon, a copy of which the English later used as a
scorecard to record its losses.
Perhaps Philip’s reticence to explain or justify his actions in prose stemmed
from the conviction that it should not be necessary - that it somehow called their
legitimacy into question (much as the Papacy had at first disdained to defend its
position against Lutheran attack). Perhaps also, however, the king considered it
superfluous because a host of Catholic writers - some but not all his subjects - did
the job for him. In northern Europe, state-sponsored polemicists based in
Cologne, Douai and Antwerp after 1579 presented the king’s cause as God’s
cause. In 1588, Cardinal Allen in Rome produced literature aimed at convincing
the Catholics of England that the Armada came to liberate them, while in Spain
Luis de Gongora and Lope de Vega (among others) wrote poems and Pedro de
Ribadeneira published a hard-hitting Ecclesiastical history of the English schism and
a pungent Exhortation to the soldiers and captains who are going on this campaign to
England, to justify Philip’s decision to overthrow Elizabeth on political as well as
religious grounds. Both tracts argued that Spain’s reputation and security as well
as the Catholic church would benefit from the ‘crusade’ which the king, heroically
supported by the pope and by the Jesuit Order (to which Ribadeneira belonged),
had decided to launch. God’s cause, Philip’s cause and Spain’s cause were portrayed
as one.^^
Some Catholic writers went even further, hailing Philip as a new King David
- a comparison first made in a sermon soon after he became king of England in
1554. At his coronation as king of Portugal in 1581, observers felt that ‘crowned,
with the sceptre in his hand, he looked like King David’; and several funeral
orations later drew the same parallel.^^ Philip certainly viewed himself as ‘rex et
sacerdos’ - king and priest - and he invested much time and effort in exercising
the rights of ecclesiastical patronage vested in his office. To begin with, he
selected all bishops and abbots personally - as he boasted to the pope on one
occasion: ‘I do not reward services by granting bishoprics, but rather I go and
search in corners for the most suitable subjects for Our Lord’s service’ - and he
showed no compunction in sending ‘turbulent and scandalous’ prelates into
exile.^^ Throughout Spain and America, no new religious order or convent could
be founded, and no papal bull proclaimed, without his express permission.®*’ On
one occasion the king told his ambassador in Rome to ask the pope not to promote
any Spanish cardinals without asking him first (and rather pedantically added,
‘Tell him that “Spaniard” refers to the whole of Spain, because over there I believe
they think it means only Castile’). Another time, upon finding that his nominee
for the vacant bishopric of the Canaries was illegitimate, he asked the pope to
overlook the irregularity; and when the pope declined, the king simply asked
^6 The Context of Strategic Culture ‘With God on Our Side’ 97
again more insistently. When Philip learned that the pope wished to review in
Rome certain cases judged by the Inquisition in Spain, he flatly refused to
cooperate (‘It is not just of His Holiness to allow this [a judicial review}, and I will
not permit fit}’); and upon learning that canonries at Jaca cathedral had been
monopolized by a few families he virtually commanded the pope to end the
practice.®’ The archive of the Spanish embassy in Rome contains hundreds of
insistent letters in support of the king’s nominees to the various ecclesiastical
vacancies in his dominions, while in Naples Philip sent out inspectors to ensure
that church patrons fulfilled their obligations and that parish priests performed
their duties properly ‘because these things affect our own interests’. At least one
pontiff complained that ‘in all the king’s dominions His Majesty’s ministers
interfere too much in ecclesiastical jurisdiction’.®^
On a more personal level, in the 1570s Philip strenuously opposed papal
attempts to replace traditional plainsong with the more ‘lively’ music composed
by Palestrina because he did not like it; and in the 1580s he gave notice that he
would not allow ‘his’ bishops to adopt the shorter coloured costumes ordered by
the pope because he preferred the traditional long black vestments.®^ He also
requested papal dispensation for himself and his children to eat meat on ‘fast
days’, ‘since I do not wish to try changing our regimen’; and at the first Mass
celebrated in the basilica of the Escorial the king sat in his pew close to the main
altar and paid close attention to the order of service, ‘looking at his missal
throughout the Mass to see that [the celebrants) followed what it ordained, and if
he noted anything that was not quite right, he immediately sent along a message
to poi• nt I• t out> .84
The Escorial epitomized Philip’s conception of his dual role as king and priest.
At the front of the basilica he placed statues of six biblical kings of Israel,
descendants of David and ancestors of Christ; at the back he erected apartments
for himself and his family. He evidently modelled the whole edifice on the Temple
erected by Solomon in Jerusalem: both monarchs executed an idea initiated by
their fathers; both used gold, bronze and precious stones as the principal adornments;
both attached a royal palace to the shrine they erected to honour God.®^
The Escorial represented far more than a pious replica of Solomon’s Temple,
however. Politically, it stood as a monument to the Habsburgs’ defeat of their
arch-enemy, since it commemorated Philip’s victory over the French at St
Quentin. Polemically it served as a visible bastion against the rising tide of heresy,
since its liturgy, its relics and its religious iconography ceaselessly affirmed the
validity of Catholic doctrine. Dynastically, it provided a magnificent complex in
which the royal family could live, rule, pray and die as exemplars of Counter-
Reformation piety, and also a mausoleum where the king could bury his relatives
and sanctify their memory. During his life Philip specified that a daunting
number of masses should be said for the souls of his departed relatives — 7,300 per
year (excluding the anniversary liturgies) according to one of the Escorial’s monks
- and his will called for masses for his soul to be said constantly by all the priests
of the Escorial for the first nine days after his death (with 30,000 more masses ‘as
98 The Context of Strategic Culture
rapidly as possible’ at an Observant Franciscan monastery); after that the Escorial’s
monastic community was to hold for the repose of his soul a High Mass every day
until Christ’s Second Coming, additional anniversary masses on the dates of his
birth and death, and continuous prayers around the clock before the Blessed
Sacrament ‘for ever and ever’.^^
Philip’s personal possessions naturally reflected his piety: the posthumous
inventory of his goods mentions innumerable religious books, paintings and other
artefacts. Above all, he gathered together at the Escorial no fewer than 7,422
relics, including 12 entire bodies, 144 complete heads and 306 entire limbs.
More significant, some authors described Philip’s lifestyle as ‘recogido’, a significant
term which implied a search for inner sanctity and religious purity; and
indeed the king sometimes deliberately withdrew from government altogether in
order to concentrate on his devotions.In Lent, and at times of crisis, he went on
retreat, and throughout his life he spent a considerable part of each day at prayer.
As a matter of principle he held up all business while he communed with God —
whether for an hour or so during a service, or for several days when on retreat — and
he regularly used this excuse to his ministers for delaying decisions: ‘I could not
send you any more tonight because today we had a sermon’; ‘I could not see the
rest (of these papers} yesterday, nor until now today, because of the Mass’; and ‘I
cannot do anything more tonight, because it is late; nor do I think I can tomorrow
because it is a day of vespers and matins’.
No doubt these religious activities, which allowed the king to step back
temporarily from political concerns and to clear his mind, renewed his strength to
cope with problems of state. (They also occasionally allowed him to catch up on
his sleep: in 1584, while at the Escorial during Holy Week, he confessed to his
daughters that he had just ‘heard two of the longest sermons of my life, although
I slept through part of them’.) Perhaps his devotions also afforded an opportunity
for Philip to lay out his options before God and seek guidance, something that
(like other Spanish statesmen) he may have done with his confessor too.^“ More
important, however, worship encouraged the king to see politics in religious
terms, to justify difficult political choices on the grounds that they were necessary
not only for the interests of Spain but also for the cause of God; to attribute
victories to divine intervention and favour; and to rationalize defeats and failures
either as a divine test of Spain s steadfastness and loyalty or as a punishment for
momentary human presumption.
Some of these elements of course form the stock-in-trade of many leaders. In the
twentieth century, Charles de Gaulle, Winston Churchill and, above all, Adolf
Hitler all regarded themselves as in some way ‘called’ by Providence, and believed
their actions in the service of their country to be directed by God.^^ In the early
modern period, an even stronger element of ‘Providentialism’ underlay the strategic
thinking of almost all states. Philip’s Protestant enemies also regarded their
victories as the result of direct divine intervention — a view epitomized by the
inscription on a Dutch medal struck to celebrate the destruction of the Spanish
Armada: god blew and they were scattered. They likewise saw their history
‘With God on Our Side’ 99
as pre-determined by Providence, and viewed wars against enemies of their faith
as a crusade — much as Philip II did. One French Protestant warrior, for example,
hailed the outcome of the Armada campaign in purely biblical terms: ‘The duke
of Parma s plan has been thwarted, and seeing the chariots of Egypt overthrown
has put his nose out. God is wonderful in his works, which smash the designs of
this world just when people are ready to shout “victory”.’ Even Philip’s Muslim
nemesis, Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent (1520-66), sought to project the image
of an eschatological saviour; and as the Islamic Millennium (1591 by Christian
reckoning) approached, his successors, as well as contemporary Safavid and Mogul
rulers, saw the world in increasingly apocalyptic terms.But messianic sentiments
ran particularly strongly in the Iberian peninsula. In the early sixteenth
century. King Manuel of Portugal (Philip’s grandfather) believed himself destined
to become emperor of the East, as did his contemporary Ferdinand of Aragon
(Philip’s great-grandfather); and Charles V clearly thought that his enterprises
deserved to succeed becausfe they sought to advance the cause of the Catholic
faith. Some of Philip’s subjects even argued that religion formed the glue that
held together the entire Monarchy. According to Fray Juan de Salazar, ‘The
principal reason why Spain has been able to acquire the kingdoms it rules, and the
fundamental reason of state that it uses to conserve them, is religion’. More than
all other states, wrote Tommaso Campanella, the Spanish Monarchy ‘is founded
upon the occult providence of God and not on either prudence or human force’;
and he and many others saw its History as a heroic progression in which miracles
offset disasters — even the Moorish Conquest of 711 and, eventually, the Armada
— as Spain continued its uneven but divinely ordained advance towards world
monarchy.
Philip himself saw his political mission in Providential terms from a very early
stage. In 1543 the colophon to the handsome atlas prepared by Battista Agnese as
a present from Charles to his son when he began to serve as regent of Spain showed
the figure of Providence giving the world to the young prince, then aged 16 (Plate
19). The victory of St Quentin on St Lawrence’s Day, 1557, moved the king to
found his monastery and mausoleum at El Escorial, dedicated to that saint because
‘he understood that such an illustrious beginning to his reign came through the
saint’s favour and intercession’. In 1559, as he waited impatiently for a favourable
wind to take him back to Spain, Philip wrote: ‘Everything depends on the will of
God, so we can only wait to see how best He can be served. I trust that, because
He has removed other worse obstacles. He will remove this one too and give me
the means to sustain my kingdoms, so that they will not be lost.’^^ The king’s
conviction that his interests coincided with those of God grew after his return to
the peninsula. Although he seems to have equated them explicitly only once -
when he reassured his dispirited governor-general in the Netherlands, Don Luis
de Requesens that ‘You are engaged in God’s service and in mine, which is the
same thing’ (p. 7 5 above) - in many other letters he linked them implicitly. He
once urged an adviser ‘to tell me in all things what you think is best for the service
of God, which is my principal aim, and therefore for my service’; and when he
Plate 19 Frontispiece of the ‘Atlas’ presented by Charles V to Philip II in 1543. Charles left Spain in the
hands of his sixteen-year-old son when he departed from the peninsula to direct a new war with France in 1543.
Apart from detailed ‘instructions’ on how to govern, he commissioned a sumptuous atlas of the world from the
Italian cartographer Battista Agnese. The frontispiece bristled with appropriate imagery: on the right an eagle
holds the Habsburg coat of arms while Neptune commands a trireme; on the left the young prince, dressed as a
Roman, reaches up for the globe which Providence prepares to hand him.
heard of another minister’s ill-health, he wrote: ‘I trust that God will give him
strength and health [to deal with} all the great troubles that afflict His service and
mine’/^ He sometimes even insisted that his own business should come before
divine worship: he ordered ministers to see some financial papers immediately,
even if it meant that they would miss church, because ‘it will be far better for
God’s service to conclude these matters than to hear the weekly offices’ and he
opposed letting his councillors attend services more often during Lent because ‘it
is also important for God’s service that they transact [business of state}’.
The coincidence of the spectacular victory at Lepanto over the Turks and the
birth of a son and heir to Philip in 1571 greatly strengthened these messianic
tendencies. For example, it provoked a veritable torrent of letters from the king’s
chief minister. Cardinal Diego de Espinosa, drawing attention to such indubitable
signs of God’s special Providence towards Spain, ‘which leaves us with little more
to desire but much to expect from His divine mercy’. Espinosa even compared
‘With God on Our Side’ lOI
Lepanto with the drowning of Pharaoh’s army in the Red Sea. Meanwhile, in Italy,
many speculated that Philip would continue, with God’s grace, to reconquer the
Holy Land and revive the title ‘Emperor of the East’ while the most famous
painter of the age, Titian, prepared The offering of Philip II to commemorate the
two events.The following year, the massacre of St Bartholomew (p. 126 below)
impressed even the normally sceptical duke of Alba as clear evidence of God’s
efforts to further both His own cause and that of Spain:
The events in Paris and France are wonderful, and truly show that God has been
pleased to change and rearrange matters in the way that He knows will favour
the conservation of the true church and advance His holy service and His glory.
And, besides all that, in the present situation, these events could not have come
at a better time for the affairs of the king our lord, for which we cannot
sufficiently thank God’s goodness.
Shortly afterwards the government organized a gigantic prayer-chain throughout
Castile to seek divine guidance and protection for the king, as principal
defender of the Catholic faith. The archbishopric of Seville (for example) was
divided into 1,100 separate devotional stations, each of which had three days
assigned annually — in strict rotation — for the recital of a special prayer. Meanwhile,
the bishops received instructions to seek out ‘persons whose prayers may
prove particularly acceptable’ and to beg them to ask God for the success of the
campaign in the Netherlands. When, in spite of all these efforts, the situation
continued to deteriorate, Mateo Vazquez tried in May 1574 to console his master
with the thought that:
God, who can do anything, is our greatest strength in these troubles, since we
have seen that He always looks out for Your Majesty, and in your greatest
necessities gives the greatest signs of favour: St Quentin, Lepanto, Granada . . .
These indications arouse great expectations that, since Your Majesty fights for
the cause of God, He will fight — as He has always done — for the interests of
Your Majesty. ^
After the loss of Tunis and La Goletta later that year, however, some of Philip’s
subjects began to criticize the king and his policies. In November, the faithful
Vazquez reported that: ‘Yesterday I heard [at Court} what I myself had greatly
suspected about La Goleta, that people believe that [its loss} was due to God’s
anger’. The bankruptcy, the collapse of royal power in the Netherlands and the
new round of taxes demanded from the Cortes in 1575—76 fanned the flames of
disenchantment and even clerics at Court, such as the king’s almoner Don Luis
Manrique, added their voices to the refrain that God had ‘repented’ of His support
for Philip and ‘had begun to cause Your Majesty great difficulties in his kingdoms
and states, and in his own family’ (one young prince died in 1575; the crown
prince in 1578). With rather more circumspection, Mateo Vazquez also drew his
102 The Context of Strategic Culture
master’s attention to the large number of setbacks to his plans and suggested that
‘we should look very closely at the reasons why God is angry with us’/°^
The death of King Sebastian and many of his nobles in the battle of
Alcazarquivir in 1578, which left Philip as heir presumptive to the Portuguese
throne, temporarily terminated this pessimism. Many ministers saw the catastrophe
as the handiwork of God, ‘because Divine Providence does not permit an
extraordinary event, such as the one that has befallen this land, without great
cause’. Later, the coincidence of a victory of Spanish forces in the Azores on St
Anne’s Day in 1582 and of the recapture of the island of Terceira on the same day
one year later, suggested to one of Philip’s secretaries that, apart from the saint,
‘it must have been the late Queen Anna, our sovereign lady [who died in 1580],
praying to God for victory’. The king agreed: ‘I thought exactly the same thing
one year ago; and although St Anne must have played a large part in these
excellent events, I have always believed that the queen could not be without a
share in our good fortune.’ Even a hardened veteran of the campaigns, Don Lope
de Figueroa, shared this outlook: Philip, he pointed out, had opposed a papal
attempt to remove St Anne’s name from the calendar of saints, and here was his
reward. Other soldiers burst into verse to celebrate Spain’s new-found power.
According to Hernando de Acuna:
The glorious time, sire, either approaches
Or has come, when the Heavens foretold
One flock and one shepherd in the world . . .
And announced to the earth, for its accord.
One monarch, one empire and one sword.
The verses of Spain’s other soldier-poets — such as Francisco de Aldana, Alonso de
Ercilla and Fernando de Herrera, whose work circulated widely during the 1580s
and 1590s — also displayed a self-intoxicating rhetoric which called for Spain to
conquer the world.
Such striking consistency in outlook stemmed in part from the common background
shared by many of the king’s servants. To begin with, over half of the men
whom Philip appointed to major positions in the central government not only
held law degrees, but had also attended one of Spain’s six colegios mayores (graduate
schools) where most of them continued their legal studies: 75 councillors of
Castile and several of its presidents, 39 councillors of the Indies and all but one of
its presidents, and so on. The crown reserved perhaps 150 senior appointments in
Castile for graduates of the colegios mayoresFurthermore, a large number of
ministers were clerics, including council presidents (Cardinals Granvelle,
Espinosa and Quiroga; six of Philip’s eight presidents of the council of the Indies),
council secretaries (Gonzalo Perez, Mateo Vazquez and Gabriel de Zayas), ambassadors
(Alvaro de la Quadra in the empire and England; Diego Guzman de Silva
in England, Genoa and Venice) and even viceroys (Granvelle in Naples; Pedro
‘With God on Our Side’ 103
Moya de Contreras, archbishop of Mexico, in New Spain). Many secular ministers
shared the same devout outlook on politics: Don Frances de Alava, for example,
who served as ambassador in France between 1564 and 1571, protested that if, in
the course of his official duties, I am [required} to become an instrument that
raises human considerations above divine ones, I hope that God removes me from
this world ; and his correspondence with Secretary of State Zayas (admittedly a
priest) exuded religious fervour - one letter cheerily concluded: ‘Spirits up, God
before us, and a fig for all the heresy in the universe.
Such uniformity of belief within the government’s senior cadres, especially
since it reflected the views of the king, no doubt helped to promote harmony of
aims and policies. It may also, of course, have encouraged inflexibility — a dogged
adherence to established policies, despite mounting evidence that they were not
working — but even some of the king’s Spanish critics shared the same messianic
outlook and deployed a similar supernatural panoply to try and change his mind.
Thus in 1566, as the Protestant tide reached its height in the Netherlands, an
influential Catholic preacher warned the king:
The holy bones of the Emperor your father are complaining and his spirit will
demand God s punishment against you if you allow the loss of those provinces,
without which Spain cannot live in safety. Your Majesty inherited not only
your states and kingdoms from your ancestors, but also your religion, valour
and virtue. I dare to say humbly to Your Majesty that you will forfeit the
glory of God if God should lose his honour and his place over there [in the
Netherlands} where Your Majesty is his lieutenant.
In 1580, some deduced that the plague that decimated the royal army - and even
the royal family — as it entered Portugal was a warning from God to desist from
the annexation, and in 1586 the nuncio claimed to have reminded the king, in an
audience, of the Prophet Ezekiel’s admonition to identify public sins that might
offend the Deity. After the failure of the Spanish Armada, Ribadeneira (who had
been one of its most vocal supporters) solemnly informed the government that:
The judgements of God are most secret, so that we cannot know for certain the
purpose of His Divine Majesty in the extraordinary fate He has decreed for the
king s powerful fleet. Nevertheless, seeing that the cause was so much His, and
was undertaken with such a holy intent, and was so much desired and assisted
by the whole Catholic church, the fact that He was not moved by the pious
prayers and tears of so many and such great devotees makes us fearful that there
are serious reasons why Our Lord has sent us this affliction ... So that it is both
necessary and advisable to seek and consider the causes that may have moved
God to punish us in this way.
Ribadeneira went on to offer five reasons why God might be offended with Spain
in general and with her king in particular.
104 The Context of Strategic Culture
Even some Catholics in the service of other rulers shared Philip’s Providential
vision. In 1585 the papal nuncio in Madrid, while sympathizing with the embarrassment
caused to Philip by Drake’s destructive West India raid, suggested to his
master that ‘I expect that God will not abandon Spain’s cause’; and in the spring
of 1588 almost all the Italian ambassadors at the Court of Spain openly expressed
their hope that the Armada would succeed since (in the words of one of them) ‘we
have God on our side, and it is to be believed that He will not abandon His cause,
which in this case is the same as that of His Majesty’.
In Philip IPs world everything was felt to have a direct cause. Everyone
therefore searched for the hand of Providence in human affairs and tried to discern
and implement God’s purpose. News of a defeat or a setback normally provoked
Philip to wonder when ‘God would return to support His cause’, and if his
fortunes received an unexpected boost he told his ministers ‘God has done this’.^^°
When in doubt about the correct policy to follow, Philip consulted committees of
theologians noted for their apparent ability to interpret the will of God: for
example, in 1565 he referred the appropriate treatment of heretics condemned by
the Inquisition in the Netherlands to a Junta de Teologos; and in 1579 he again
sought the opinion of a number of theologians (some individually, others collectively)
on whether or not to enforce his claim to the Portuguese throne.Many
of his subjects consulted prophets. In the 1580s Sor Marfa de la Visitacion (the
‘nun of Lisbon’), Miguel de Piedrola (the ‘soldier prophet’) and Lucrecia de Leon
— the first in Lisbon and the other two in Madrid — won widespread followings
with their predictions. Their success (and that of others) prompted Juan Horozco
y Covarrubias, frustrated because ‘everyone’ in Spain had begun to prophesy that
‘in the year 1588 Spain will be lost’, and that the Enterprise of England would fail,
published a work entitled Treatise of true and false prophecy which sought to
discourage the practice and discredit most of the practitioners. He failed: in that
very year the duke of Medina Sidonia asked the ‘nun of Lisbon’ to bless the
Armada as he prepared to lead it down the Tagus; while Joseph Creswell, a Jesuit
chosen to play a prominent part in the re-Catholicization of his native England
should the Armada succeed, went to consult ‘a holy man who enjoyed such contact
with Our Lord that he might well have known something of His plans’ before
leaving Rome. (The ‘holy man’ discouragingly but accurately predicted that the
fleet would ‘go up in smoke’.)^^^
Philip and his supporters did not stand alone in their Providentialism.
Throughout the early modern period rulers on both sides of the confessional
divide created by the Reformation sought to identify God’s purpose and to frame
their public and private lives accordingly. Thus Charles I, king of England,
Scotland and Ireland from 1625 until his death on the scaffold in 1649, repeatedly
adopted a Providential view of public affairs. In 1642, at war with important
groups of his subjects in all three kingdoms, he declared that his victory would
show that God had forgiven his sins, whereas defeat would prove that his punishment
would continue until he had left this world: ‘I have set up my rest upon the
justice of my cause,’ he wrote, ‘being resolved that no extremity or misfortune
‘With God on Our Side’ 105
shall make me yield; for I will either be a Glorious King or a Patient Martyr.’
Three years later, after his crucial defeat at Naseby, Charles refused a suggestion
that he should seek the best terms possible from his adversaries because:
If I had any other quarrel but the defence of my religion, crown, and friends,
you had full reason for your advice; for I confess that, speaking either as a mere
soldier or statesman, I must say that there is no probability but of my ruin. Yet
as a Christian, I must tell you that God will not suffer rebels and traitors to
prosper, or this cause to be overthrown ... A composition with them at this
time is nothing else but a submission, which, by the grace of God, I am
resolved against, whatever it cost me; for I know my obligation to be, both in
conscience and honour, neither to abandon God’s cause, injure my successors,
or forsake my friends.
One of the victors of Naseby, Oliver Cromwell, likewise felt total confidence in
the justice of his cause, having been taught since his schooldays that ‘Nothing in
this world comes to pass by chance or adventure, but only and alwaies by the
prescription of [God’s} will’; and when, more than a decade later, one of his own
enterprises (the ‘Western Design’) met with failure, he took it as an irrefutable
sign of divine displeasure.
Such total reliance on the hand of Providence could under certain circumstances
produce an absence of policy - ‘the forgoing of trust in fleshly reasoning and its
instruments and institutions’, as a critic wrote of Cromwell — but Philip and his
ministers did not normally fall into this error. On the contrary, a conviction
that ‘Heaven helps those who help themselves’ appears repeatedly in their
correspondence.In 1588, as he struggled to get the Armada to sea, the king
hectored his council of Finance on the need to do everything possible to find the
necessary funds so that ‘I can say that I have fulfilled my obligations’. A few days
later he again reminded a minister of ‘the time and trouble’ he had invested ‘to
find all the money that has been spent, and which still needs to be spent, so that
nothing on my part remains to be done [in order to complete} what has been
started’.”^
Rather, Philip’s brand of messianic imperialism led to the error of adopting
unrealistic policies, doing everything humanly possible to put them into effect
and then relying on divine intervention to ‘bridge the gap’. Thus in 1571, when
his plan to support an English Catholic rising began to collapse, Philip convinced
himself that the invasion formed part of God’s design both for His cause and for
Spain, and so must go forward anyway.
I am so keen to achieve the consummation of this enterprise, I am so attached
to it in my heart, and I am so convinced that God our Saviour must embrace it
as His own cause, that I cannot be dissuaded. Nor can I accept or believe the
contrary, and this leads me to understand matters differently [from other
people}, and makes me play down the difficulties and problems that spring up;
io6 The Context of Strategic Culture
so that all the things that could either divert or stop me from carrying through
this business seem less threatening to me.
On this occasion, Philip recognized the dangers of such presumption, adding: ‘I
know that this is how this confidence in God should be interpreted, without
letting ourselves be led to undertake enterprises that are either desperate or
impossible, and with resources that in human terms are inadequate and weak (for
that would be rather to tempt God than to trust in Him)’.“^ Later, he became less
cautious. When the marquis of Santa Cruz complained late in 1587 about the
danger of leading the Armada against England in midwinter, for example, the
king replied serenely: ‘We are fully aware of the risk that is incurred by sending
a major fleet in winter through the Channel without a safe harbour, but . . . since
it is all for His cause, God will send good weather’.
Naturally, although Santa Cruz remained unconvinced, other ministers at other
times often shared the king’s conviction that he could secure God’s favour and
thus make the impossible possible. In 1574, when Philip resurrected the idea of
invading England at a time when his resources seemed fully committed in both
the Netherlands and the Mediterranean, his bewildered commander in Brussels
concluded that such apparent lunacy ‘must be divine inspiration’. In 1588, after
reviewing the dangers inherent in the king’s Armada strategy, one of the fleet’s
squadron commanders concluded: ‘But since it is Your Majesty who has decided
everything, we must believe that it is God’s will.’ At much the same time, either
he or one of his colleagues informed the papal agent in Lisbon:
Unless God helps us by a miracle the English, who have faster and handier ships
than ours, and many more long-range guns, and who know their advantage just
as well as we do, will never close with us at all, but stand aloof and knock us
to pieces with their culverins, without our being able to do them any serious
hurt. So we are sailing against England in the confident hope of a miracle.
From the king downwards, almost everyone in Spain seems to have anticipated
that God would intervene directly whenever required, and miracles became an
integral part of Spain’s strategic culture. In December 1574 for example — after
losing Tunis and La Goletta to the Turks, failing to take Leiden from the Dutch,
and paying a fortune to end the mutiny among his Spanish veterans in the
Netherlands - Philip informed his secretary: ‘May God help us with a miracle. I
tell you that we need one so much that it seems to me that He must choose to give
us a miracle, because without one I see everything in the worst situation imaginable’.
In the course of the 1580s an adviser declared that ‘miracles are especially
essential in the duchy of Milan, where one struggles against necessity all the
time’, and after the Armada’s failure an outspoken courtier noted that ‘everyone
relies on the miracles and supernatural remedies which God visibly provides for
His Majesty — and may He continue to do so, because it cannot be denied that the
cause IS His .
‘With God on Our Side’ 107
This constant and overt reliance on miracles nevertheless made some of the
king’s advisers feel uncomfortable. ‘I do not know whether God will always
perform miracles,’ warned Cardinal Granvelle in 1585. ‘In the end, we cannot do
so much with so little, and God will not always do miracles for us,’ echoed the
duke of Parma the following year.^^^ In June 1588, after a storm had damaged
some vessels of the Spanish Armada, driven others into Corunna, and scattered the
rest, its commander Medina Sidonia decided that the age of miracles must have
passed. The storm had been so severe, he told the king, that ‘At any time it would
be remarkable; but since it is only late June and since this is the cause of Our Lord,
to whose care it has been — and is being — so much entrusted, it would appear that
what has happened must be His doing, for some just reason.’ Perhaps, the duke
speculated, the Almighty had issued a warning that the enterprise should be
abandoned? Philip flatly rejected this. ‘If this were an unjust war [he replied], one
could indeed take this storm as a sign from Our Lord to cease offending Him; but
being as just as it is, one cannot believe that He will disband it, but rather will
grant it more favour than we could hope ... I have dedicated this enterprise to
God,’ the king concluded briskly. ‘Get on, then, and do your part!’ Remarkably,
this display of blinkered intransigence seems to have convinced the duke: just two
weeks later he reported jubilantly that ‘God, since it is His own cause, and since
He has not forgotten the great service that His Majesty wishes to offer with this
enterprise, has been pleased to reunite the entire fleet, without the loss of a single
ship, and with no loss for any of them. I hold this to be a great miracle.’ Medina
Sidonia, like his master, now looked forward confidently to victory.
This textbook example of ‘cognitive rigidity’ highlights two critical weaknesses
created by the king’s messianic imperialism: a willingness to cast all
caution to the winds and, equally dangerous, a failure to make contingency plans.
Late in 1572 Secretary of State Zayas drafted a letter from the king congratulating
the duke of Alba on his successful campaign and giving advice on the best way to
crush the prince of Orange who, ‘since he is hard pressed, I believe will cross to
England’. Philip deleted this phrase, adding, ‘I never wish to write down predictions,
or what I think will happen’. The king likewise failed to devote serious
thought to ‘fall-back strategies’: he rejected almost all the alternatives to a
conventional war to end the Dutch Revolt between 1572 and 1576 (Chapter 4),
and in 1588 he refused to consider (until long after it had happened) what the
dukes of Medina Sidonia and Parma should do if they proved unable to join forces
as planned (p. 267 below).It is easy to criticize these failures, but Spain’s
strategic culture absolutely demanded such total optimism: since it had to
be assumed that God fought on Spain’s side and would therefore send success,
any attempt to plan for possible failure could be construed as either ‘tempting
Providence’ or denoting a lack of faith.
Nevertheless, as the eminent mathematician John von Neumann once observed,
‘Failure must not be thought of as an aberration, but as an essential, independent
part of the logic of complex systems. The more complex the system, the more
io8 The Context of Strategic Culture
likely it is that one of its parts will malfunction.’ Messianic imperialism, by
contrast, accorded no place to failure, no recognition that human affairs have a
tendency to become disorderly or that their random deviations from the predicted
pattern require constant correction - particularly in warfare where, as Carl von
Clausewitz wrote, every strategy is carried out by individuals, ‘the least important
of whom may chance to delay things or somehow make them go wrong’. Philip
failed to take this into account.
Admittedly, many twentieth-century statesmen and strategists have made the
same mistake: Germany’s Schlieffen Plan before World War I, Hitler’s Operation
Barbarossa against Russia, and the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor all lacked a
fall-back strategy: failure to take Paris in the first case, failure to take Moscow in
the second, and failure to destroy the entire United States Pacific fleet together
with its fuel reserves in the third, all proved fatal because from that point
onwards, strategy had to be replaced by confused improvisation, impassioned
rhetoric, and the hope of a miracle. Philip II, however, left more to chance - or
‘Providence’ - than most statesmen, thanks to his complete confidence that God
would make good any deficiencies and errors. Philip’s messianic claims precluded
not only planning for failure, but also a willingness to make the compromises that
ultimately had to be agreed, whether with Protestants or with Muslims. Philip
could never, like Henry IV of France, change his religion when it suited him
(‘Paris is well worth a Mass’); and yet his reluctance to abandon or even to adapt
his confessionally based policies when they ran into difficulties gave other states
— France, the Ottomans, England, the Dutch and several Italian rulers — time to
mobilize their resources in order to thwart Spain’s strategic goals. They may not
have been able to prevent the acquisition of Portugal and its overseas empire, but
they could and did limit the benefits that Spain derived from it; and they also
successfully challenged Philip’s power elsewhere, first in the Netherlands and the
Mediterranean, then in the North Atlantic and finally in Asia and the Americas.
Scarcely had the king died than a flood of tracts and polemics claimed that the
power of the crown had waned both at home and abroad during his reign. In
1599, Rodrigo Vazquez de Arce, president of the council of Finance, graphically
informed the Cortes of Castile that ‘We can truthfully say that when His Majesty
died, his royal person disappeared and so did the entire royal treasury.’ Martin
Gonzalez de Cellorigo, a lawyer who worked for the Spanish Inquisition, in 1600
printed a celebrated ‘Memorial’ for the ‘Restoration of Spain’ which argued that
the Spanish Monarchy ‘has reached a state which all of us judge to be worse than
ever before’ and explicitly used (perhaps for the first time) the term ‘decline’.
Balthasar Alamos de Barrientos, another lawyer in government service, composed
a blistering assessment of Spain’s position that almost parodied Charles V’s survey
just half a century before. Having described at length the discontents of subjects
in every state of the Monarchy except Castile - open rebellion in the North
Netherlands and vehement anti-Spanish sentiment in the South; discontent in
Portugal, Spanish Italy, Aragon and the Americas - Alamos de Barrientos relentlessly
reviewed the hostility of almost all the Monarchy’s neighbours. France,
‘With God on Our Side’ 109
although now at peace, boasted a powerful king (Henry IV) who ruled a unified
state full of disciplined veteran troops: she would welcome any opportunity to
foster a war in Italy that would weaken Spain further. England’s inveterate hatred
had led it to support Spain’s rebels, to interlope in the Americas and even to
launch direct attacks on the peninsula. The larger independent states of Italy all
resented Spanish dominance and longed to see it end; the smaller ones, including
the Papacy, could no longer be relied on for support. The contrast with the
confident vision of Charles V fifty years earlier could hardly have been starker. Just
as the emperor (although he had acquired several new territories in the Old World
and the New) failed to pass on his inheritance intact to his son, so Philip (although
he too had added further realms around the globe) proved unable to hand on intact
all the lands he had inherited, let alone achieve his strategic goals. Above all he
had lost a good part of the Netherlands and his influence in England. Why?
u
Part II: The Formation of
Grand Strategy
In the year 1600 one of Philip’s senior diplomats, writing in Rome, shrewdly
observed to a colleague:
Truly, sir, I believe we are gradually becoming the target at which the whole
world wants to shoot its arrowsj and you know that no empire, however great,
has been able to sustain many wars in different areas for long. If we can think
only of defending ourselves, and never manage to contrive a great offensive
blow against one of our enemies, so that when that is over we can turn to the
others, although I may be mistaken I doubt whether we can sustain an empire
as scattered as ours.
The empire on which the sun never set had begun to seem like the target on which
the sun never set. In the same year Anthonis Duyck, one of the king’s former
subjects in the North Netherlands, having somewhat smugly reviewed the various
defeats and failures of the arch-enemy’ in his diary, likewise began to ‘wonder
whether the Spaniards might lose in the seventeenth century all the reputation
that they gained in the sixteenth’.^ Both writers believed that Philip had failed to
achieve his strategic goals and that, in doing so, he had gravely weakened the
overall security of the Spanish Monarchy.
Paul Kennedy s Rise and fall of the Great Powers offered three explanations for
this failure. To begin with, it accorded great importance to the series of changes
in the art of war in Europe sometimes termed the ‘Military Revolution’. First
came the development of more powerful gunpowder weapons in the fifteenth
century which rendered useless the high thin walls, designed to deter assaults,
which had for millennia formed the standard defence for human settlements.
Starting in Italy in the 1520s, however, a new system of fortification appeared,
with low thick walls built in star-shaped patterns of bastions and ravelins,
surrounded by a wide moat. Every part of the new defences bristled with guns
arranged in interlocking fields of fire, ready both to cut down any besiegers rash
enough to attempt a frontal assault and to keep the enemy’s artillery away from
the walls. The new style of fortifications, called the ‘modern style’ in Italy and the
III
I 12
‘Italian style’ everywhere else, made it virtually impossible to capture any major
stronghold quickly. In the Netherlands, Antwerp, surrounded by eight kilometres
of walls studded with ten bastions, fell in 1585 only after a siege lasting
a year; while Ostend, a seaport defended by bastions and powerful outlying
redoubts, withstood investment for three years before it surrendered in 1604.
Partly in response to the need to mount a sustained blockade of enemy strongholds
(while at the same time defending one’s own bastioned fortresses), the size
of armies began to increase rapidly. The armed forces of Habsburg Spain, for
example, increased almost tenfold in the first half of the sixteenth century.
Inevitably, this prodigious inflation of manpower, on top of the crippling cost of
the new fortifications themselves, led to a dramatic leap in expenditure on war.^
These various developments, according to Paul Kennedy, formed the principal
reason why the Habsburgs’ bid for mastery failed: thanks to escalating military
costs they ‘consistently spent two or three times more than the[ir} ordinary
revenues provided’ on war. Before total victory could be achieved, the state went
bankrupt.
Kennedy also suggested that two other problems exacerbated Spain’s military
and fiscal crisis. On the one hand, he saw the Habsburg empire as ‘one of the
greatest examples of strategical overstretch in history’: ‘the Habsburgs simply had
too much to do, too many enemies to fight, too many fronts to defend’ — in the
Netherlands, Germany, Italy, North Africa, the Mediterranean, the Atlantic, the
Americas and, after 1580, around the shores of Africa and South Asia as well. In
the age of the Military Revolution, he argued, no state could hope to fight wars
on so many fronts and win. On the other hand, Kennedy noted that the
Habsburgs mobilized even the limited resources available for this herculean effort
inefficiently. Instead of husbanding every available ducat, time and again they
squandered resources needlessly: crippling industrial growth with heavy taxes;
maintaining numerous internal tariff barriers; minting a disastrously overvalued
copper currency; expelling the Moriscos in 1609; investing huge sums of money
in palaces and court splendour.^ But is this the whole story?
Admittedly many contemporaries anticipated Kennedy’s argument. According
to an English tract, published just after the 1596 bankruptcy decree, Philip’s
campaigns had become simply too expensive to win.
[His] warres on land, as those in the Lowe Countries . . . will cost him sixe
times more than it costeth his enemies, for that before he hath raised a souldier
in Spaine, and placed him in the frontiers of Artois, ready to fight against a
Frenchman, it costeth him a hundreth duckets, where a French souldier will
cost his king but ten.
Many others excoriated the inefficiency, the backwardness and the underdevelopment
of the Spanish economy.^
Nevertheless, the accusation that the Spanish empire mobilized its resources
‘inefficiently’ — though true — is anachronistic. To begin with, a number of basic.
The Formation of Grand Strategy
permanent and normally insurmountable obstacles lay in the path of any ‘bid for
mastery’ by an early modern European state. In the first place, no government of
the period could reach into all areas or command all subjects within its borders.
The typical polity of early modern Europe was not the homogeneous and unitary
nation-state; rather it comprised a loose aggregation of territories formed over the
course of centuries by marriage treaties, negotiated take-overs and formal mergers.
In almost every case an act of association laid down in detail the separate identity
and particular privileges of the various constituent parts. Valois and Bourbon
France, Stuart Britain and the Spanish Monarchy all formed ‘composite states’
linked by dynastic rather than by national, geographic, economic or ideological
ties. Failure to observe the terms of incorporation almost always led - often very
swiftly - to disaffection and even to revolt, led by the local elite. In addition, each
major component state retained its own economic, social and (above all) defensive
interests long after incorporation, and they did not always coincide with those of
the central government. Thus Charles V favoured war with Denmark in the 1520s
and 15 30s because its king had come to power by deposing his predecessor,
married to Charles’s sister, and the emperor felt that dynastic honour required
him to act. The government of the Netherlands, however, desired peace with
Denmark because the prosperity of the country’s Baltic commerce (popularly
known as the ‘mother trade’ because it nourished so many other forms of economic
activity) depended upon safe passage through the Danish Sound. For similar
reasons, the Brussels government wanted to preserve peace with England, another
major trading partner, and opposed any attempt by either Charles or Philip to
imperil cordial relations.^
Conflicting religious allegiances, especially after the rise of the Protestant
Reformation, also limited government effectiveness in many early modern states.
Several rebellions against Philip arose in large part from the opposition of confessional
minorities - Protestants in the Netherlands, Muslims in Spain - to the
policies of religious unification that his government sought to impose, and some
international crises stemmed from his desire to stamp out Protestantism. The
king’s confessional goals, however, often conflicted with other interests. At the
public level, Philip’s unqualified commitment to advancing the Catholic cause
deprived him of potential friends and made him unnecessary enemies: he broke
with England, Spain’s ally for almost two centuries, essentially over religious
differences. At the private level, it set up a tension between principle and practice
that caused severe problems. Philip firmly believed - and his many devout
advisers frequently reminded him - that he served as God’s lieutenant on earth
and therefore had an obligation to pursue at all times policies consistent with the
needs of the Catholic church. This formed a crucial ‘boundary condition’ that all
his policies and decisions ultimately needed to satisfy. Sometimes, nevertheless,
when dealing with either Protestant subjects or Protestant neighbours, the king
apparently failed for a while to perceive when a policy - such as permitting
changes in the ecclesiastical affairs of the Netherlands between 1561 and 1566 -
infringed this key boundary condition. In time he saw his error and changed
Fart II: The Formation of Grand Strategy 113
The Formation of Grand Strategy
course, but by then it provoked widespread opposition because many of his
subjects, assuming that the new policy reflected a trend rather than an aberration,
had made a commitment — just as firm as Philip’s own — to an incompatible and
equally militant creed. In the case of England, the king likewise failed to indicate
what compromises he could contemplate in order to maintain cordial relations
with a Protestant state, and so led Elizabeth to draw the wrong conclusions both
from his apparent indifference between 1560 and 1568 and again between 1574
and 1585, and from his suddenly threatening actions at the end of those periods
of coexistence. By failing, whether through expediency or oversight, to emphasize
his boundary conditions throughout, the king embarked on a course of confrontation
that would lead to almost eighty years of war in the Netherlands and almost
twenty with England. The precipitation of these two hugely expensive but largely
avoidable conflicts - which between them set Spain on the road to decline - had
little to do with the Military Revolution, strategic overstretch, or the poor
deployment of resources. Rather they stemmed from Philip’s imperfect understanding
of his executive functions, from the acute stress that periodically reduced
his policy options as it increased his cognitive rigidity, and from the messianic
strategic culture that prevailed at his Court.
114
4 The ^Great Bog of Europe’:
the Netherlands, 1^35—
The ‘Political Testament’ composed by Charles V for his son in 1548 devoted
remarkably little attention to the Netherlands because, as the emperor freely
admitted, he did not know what to do. Should he bequeath them, along with
Spain, to his son; or should he leave them attached to the Holy Roman Empire?
‘As we have seen and discovered, the people there cannot tolerate being governed
by foreigners’; and yet if Philip became ruler of the Netherlands, ‘you will not be
able to reside there, or visit them often’. Charles therefore decided that the young
man should ‘come and see the country for yourself’ and promised to make no final
decision until he did so.^
Four major considerations complicated the exercise of effective control in the
Low Countries by the central government. First, the geography of the provinces
created unique problems. On the one hand, much of the countryside in the west
and north lay below sea level, and included large numbers of rivers, lakes and
marshes, while an elaborate system of dikes protected the extensive reclaimed
lands where farmers maintained a perilous existence. Owen Feltham, an English
travel writer, later called the Netherlands ‘The great bog of Europe. There is
not such another marsh in the world, that’s flat. They are an universall
quagmire ... the buttock of the world, full of veines and bloud, but no bones.’ By
contrast, an unusually large proportion of the population in the western areas
lived in towns: the Netherlands boasted over 200 towns, nineteen of them with a
population of 10,000 or more (compared with only three in England); half of the
inhabitants of the province of Holland were town-dwellers, a figure unmatched
elsewhere in Europe. All early modern governments found it hard to control their
towns, especially when they were fortified, and by the 1560s twelve Netherlands
towns possessed a complete circuit of‘modern’, Italian-style fortifications while a
further eighteen boasted a partial circuit.*
A second factor further enhanced the power of the towns in the Netherlands:
the central government had only recently achieved its definitive form. By 1548
Charles ruled seventeen separate provinces, of which the most powerful were
Brabant and Flanders in the south and Holland in the north; but whereas these
three (and a few others) had been administered from Brussels for a century or
y
A ■
116 The Formation of Grand Strategy
more, others (such as Gelderland) had been acquired only a few years before. The
absence of an accepted collective name epitomized the political fragmentation of
the area: documents of the day referred lamely to ‘the Low Countries’ or ‘The
countries over there’ (Lej pays de par deld, a term coined by the dukes of Burgundy
who acquired several Netherlands provinces in the fifteenth century, to distinguish
them from Burgundy itself: Les pays de par degd — ‘the countries over here’).
The emperor therefore decided to strengthen the ties that bound the seventeen
Dutch provinces that he ruled. In June 1548 he persuaded the Diet of the
Holy Roman Empire to recognize them as a single political unit (a ‘Circle’ or
Reichskreis), to exempt them from imperial jurisdiction and imperial laws (including
the ‘religious peace’ that permitted all territorial rulers to choose the religious
creed of their subjects), and to promise to send military assistance if the Netherlands
were attacked. A year later, having decided to allow his son to inherit the
Netherlands after all, he persuaded the seventeen provinces - individually and
collectively - to accept that thenceforth they would all accept the same ruler, and
to recognize Philip as his heir and successor. Each province, however, retained
its own representative assembly (the ‘States’), sending representatives when
requested for meetings of a States-General; but collective decisions of that body
only became binding when the assembly of each province gave approval. In addition,
each province had its own laws and legal system, which rarely permitted
appeals to the central courts, and many boasted a formal contract that detailed the
‘privileges’ which each ruler had to swear to accept before his authority became
effective. Any violation of the agreement could (and often did) produce rebellion:
as one of Philip’s Spanish advisers later noted with alarm, ‘we read in the
chronicles that there have been thirty-five revolts against the natural prince, and
after each of them the people remained far more insolent than before’.^
Had these two considerations constituted the only obstacles to the effective
government of the Netherlands, no doubt the Habsburgs would in time have
surmounted them - after all, Charles remained a remarkably popular ruler despite
some isolated rebellions, most notably by Ghent in 1539—40. In the course of
his reign, however, two further challenges reared their heads. On the one hand,
Protestant doctrines found many adherents in the area: by 1530 at least thirty
works by Luther had appeared in Dutch translation, and during Charles’s reign at
least 2,000 Netherlanders were executed for their religious beliefs and a far larger
number were sentenced to fines, confiscation or exile. Nevertheless, when the
emperor abdicated in 1555, partly due to relentless persecution heresy seemed to
be losing ground. The only major outstanding problem that Philip inherited
from his father in the Netherlands (as elsewhere) was therefore financial. Despite
prodigious tax increases, Charles’s expenditure far exceeded revenues and the
short-term debt of the Brussels government soared from i million ducats in 1544
to 3.5 million in 1556. The following year Philip convened the States of Brabant
(the richest province) and asked for new taxes, but they only agreed on condition
that they themselves would supervise the collection and distribution of the money
raised. The king bitterly regretted this precedent but, at war with France and the
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, lyyy—jj 117
Turks, he had no alternative; he also had to make the same concession early in
1559 in order to secure an even larger grant, the Nine Years’ Aid (worth 3.6
million ducats), from the States-General.
Having secured these tax revenues, and having signed the peace of Cateau-
Cambresis with France, Philip returned to Spain in order to concentrate on the
affairs of southern Europe. In itself, this need not have proved a crucial error:
Charles had frequently been absent from the Netherlands, often for years at a time
(1522—31, 1532-40 and so on), delegating extensive authority to one of his
relatives as regent. However, Philip foolishly decided to introduce a number of
innovations to take effect at his departure. He appointed an inexperienced regent,
his half-sister Margaret of Parma, with extremely restricted powers: he ordered ^
her to inform him of every matter of note and to take no decision without
consulting him first; he even provided her with a list of candidates who were to
be appointed in strict order to ecclesiastical benefices as and when they fell vacant.
To ensure her compliance, Philip also ordered her to follow in all things the advice
of Antoine Perrenot de Granvelle, son of a leading minister of Charles V and an
experienced diplomat in his own right (he had served as one of Philip’s three
negotiators at Cateau-Cambresis). Granvelle corresponded directly and regularly
with the king, often criticizing Margaret. All this seriously undermined her
authority, and before long the English and French governments withdrew their
agents from Brussels ‘because we have learned that so far everything is decided in
Spain’.A second innovation was Philip’s decision to leave behind two tercios of
Spanish veterans as a permanent garrison, both to guard against the possibility of
French aggression and to serve as a ‘rapid reaction force’ should a crisis arise in
north-west Europe. Many Netherlanders regarded their presence with deep suspicion,
fearing that they might also be used during a domestic crisis. ‘I do not
believe that people are happy with so many novelties,’ Count Lamoral of Egmont
(a councillor of State and prominent Netherlands nobleman) advised his colleague
William of Nassau, prince of Orange. ‘The king is totally determined to retain the
Spanish infantry and demobilize all the other troops: I leave you to guess his
reasons.’ Somewhat later Granvelle voiced these fears more clearly: ‘People here
universally display discontent with any and all Spaniards in these provinces. It
would seem that this derives from the suspicion that one might wish to subject
them to Spain and reduce them to the same state as the Italian provinces under the
Spanish crown.
The political leaders of the Netherlands soon discovered an effective method of
registering their hostility. Given the dependence of the Spanish garrisons on local
taxes for their maintenance, and given the government’s agreement that the
provincial authorities would control both the collection and the distribution of
these taxes, the States flatly refused to release any of the Nine Years’ Aid until the
Spaniards left. After much heart-searching the king crumbled and, early in 1561,
the troops sailed home — despite Granvelle’s warning that ‘they serve as a brake on
people here: please God, let no trouble start once they have gone’.^^ Events soon
justified his fears. In 1559 Philip had secretly arranged with the pope to create a
new episcopal hierarchy for the Netherlands, where only four bishops ministered
to over three million people; under the ‘new bishoprics scheme’, fourteen more
sees (including one archbishopric) would be added. In addition, two members of
each new diocesan chapter would serve as inquisitors to crack down on heresy,
thus supplementing the efforts of the undermanned and overworked apostolic
inquisition in the area. The new bishoprics scheme remained a closely guarded
secret for two years while a committee appointed jointly by the pope and the king
worked out the new diocesan boundaries. By 1561 everything seemed ready and
so, without warning, the pope published the scheme and named the new bishops
(all of them proposed by Philip). Granvelle became both primate of the new
hierarchy and a cardinal.
A huge outcry immediately broke out in the Netherlands. The political elite
felt alienated by the secrecy with which the scheme had been devised; many senior
clerics opposed the plan because finance for the new bishops would come from
redistributing the revenues from existing ecclesiastical institutions (theirs!); and
the towns, led by the cosmopolitan trading metropolis of Antwerp, objected
vociferously to the expansion of the Inquisition on the grounds that it would
damage their trade with Protestant countries. Philip thus achieved a feat that had
escaped his father: previously the nobles, the clergy and the towns of each province
had always been at each other s throats; the new bishoprics scheme now united
them. This time the Netherlands elite exploited the factions at the king’s Court.
In the opinion of a French observer, ‘The stubbornness of the [Netherlands] nobles
in their quarrel rests upon the favouritism and divisions that exist at the Court of
Spain . . . The duke of Alba and Ruy Gomez . . . spread their wings to the most
distant lands such as the Netherlands, where the duke supports Cardinal
Granvelle, and Ruy Gomez, who has been [the cardinal’s] enemy since the days of
the late emperor, favours his opponents’.Granvelle’s opponents in Brussels made
full use of their contacts at Court — above all Ruy Gomez and Francisco de Erasso
- to discredit him and to assure the king that, at the price of a few small
concessions, all would again be well in the Netherlands. In the face of
their tenacious and well-orchestrated opposition Philip crumbled yet again: first
he abrogated the inquisition idea; then he suspended the appointments to
several new sees (including Antwerp); finally he agreed to recall Granvelle whom
everyone (wrongly) suspected of masterminding the unpopular scheme.
In retrospect, this sequence of retreats clearly formed the prelude to the major
rebellion in the Netherlands that began in 1566; why did Philip not realize the
danger at the time and take a firmer stand? The principal explanation lies in the
king’s perceived need to accommodate his principles - no compromise on heresy,
no concessions to opponents, loyalty to his subordinates - to a series of crises
outside the Netherlands. In the summer of 1560 the Ottoman fleet ambushed a
Habsburg expeditionary force sent by the viceroy of Sicily to the island of Djerba
in North Africa, capturing some thirty galleys and 6,000 veteran troops. Withdrawing
the tercios from the Netherlands a few months later could thus be
justified as shoring up the defences of Christendom against Islam in the Mediter118
The Formation of Grand Strategy
ranean. The same remained true in 1562—63: while the Netherlands political elite
concentrated on destroying the new bishoprics scheme and securing the recall of
Granvelle, Philip focused all his resources and attention first on sending an
expeditionary force to help his brother-in-law Charles IX to defeat his Protestant
subjects in the first of the French Religious Wars and then on relieving Oran
(besieged by Muslim forces). In the words of a minister of Court, ‘We talk of
nothing here but the siege of Oran . . . and on its outcome depend many other
things - even whether we [i.e. the king] stay here or return there [to the
Netherlands]’.^^ Under such circumstances, Ruy Gomez, Erasso and their
colleagues could claim that concessions - even religious concessions - in the
Netherlands were justified on the grounds that they enabled Philip to uphold
the Catholic faith elsewhere.
Philip wrongly believed those who assured him that these measures would
restore sound government, and he therefore left the Low Countries to look after
themselves while he concentrated on another major campaign in the Mediterranean:
he sent no letters at all to Brussels between April and August 1564. By the
end of the year, encouraged by their new independence and under pressure from
a small number of Protestant supporters, the Netherlands leaders decided to ask
the king to modify the remaining heresy laws and to tolerate Protestantism in the
Low Countries just as his cousin Maximilian did in the Holy Roman Empire. In
March 1565 Count Egmont travelled to Spain in order to secure this further
concession; at Court he stayed with Ruy Gomez. In one sense, the count had
picked a good moment: he arrived just as news came in that the Turks intended
to take Malta, forcing Philip to concentrate on making plans for its relief The
king had also arranged an interview between his wife Elisabeth de Valois and
her mother, Catherine de Medici queen regent of France, with selected ministers
from each side in attendance, in order to resolve outstanding differences between
the two crowns and to hammer out a common policy on extirpating heresy.
Egmont’s chances of success were compromised, however, by the waning influence
of his principal court allies: Erasso had fallen under suspicion of fraud (a visita
would later suspend him from office and impose a heavy fine), and much of Ruy
G6mez’s time now went on running the household of the unpredictable and
unlovable heir to the throne Don Carlos. Besides, the king now realized that their
conciliatory policy had increased rather than reduced his problems in the Netherlands:
as he wrote petulantly to a trusted adviser: ‘I greatly regret [the things]
contained in the two papers that [Egmont] has given me. I think we should look
more closely at the motives of those — either there or here — who have put him up
to this’.
For the moment, however, the king’s hands were tied. I have so much on my
mind’, he lamented as he wrestled over what to tell Egmont, that I scarcely know
what I am doing or saying.’ He could not accept the count s demand for toleration;
yet ‘if we refuse outright we would never see the end of him’. Philip sought
to draft an ambiguous reply that would maintain the integrity of his principles
without stirring up more trouble. He failed. Naturally, Philips constant
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, ^^9
120
preoccupation with Mediterranean affairs had become well known in the Low
Countries: the records of Margaret’s council of State (on which Egmont and
Orange sat) carefully monitored developments in southern Europe and drew the
obvious conclusions. In April 1565, for example, Orange noted that ‘The Turks
press us hard this year, which we believe will mean that the king cannot come to
the Netherlands’; the following month Egmont, newly returned from Spain,
confirmed that ‘being preoccupied with the war against the Turks, who are
expected to attack Malta, His Majesty finds it impossible to come to the Low
Countries this year’. The king’s subjects throughout the Netherlands ardently
followed the progress of the Mediterranean campaign, with the aid of foreign
newsletters and even cheap printed maps of Malta, since everyone realized that the
outcome of the siege would determine royal policy in the north. Eor months no
word came from the king: apart from another ambiguous letter in May, Philip did
not communicate with his ministers in the Netherlands until mid-October 1565
when he began his letter to Margaret of Parma with the feeble excuse: ‘Madam my
good sister: The great and varied matters of business which have come upon me
for several months past have caused my long delay in replying to the several letters
you have written me . .
Philip’s studied neglect of his northern possessions had allowed an extremely
dangerous situation to arise. After Egmont’s return, few enforced the heresy laws
in the Netherlands and Protestant cells developed in several hundred communities,
creating a contradiction between principle and practice that the king clearly
could not tolerate. In his carefully crafted letters of October 1565, sent just after
hearing of the relief of Malta, Philip therefore reaffirmed all his earlier policies: no
toleration, full and immediate implementation of the new bishoprics, expansion
of the Inquisition. By now, however, words no longer sufficed: a formal petition
demanding the abolition of the Inquisition and the moderation of the heresy laws
began to circulate in the Netherlands and soon attracted over 400 signatures from
nobles and gentry. In April 1566 some 300 armed supporters of these proposals
forced their way into Margaret’s palace and asked that she meet their demands
pending a formal decision from the king. Lacking troops, money and support, she
reluctantly agreed, and within a few weeks crowds of thousands began to attend
the open-air sermons delivered by Protestant - mainly Calvinist - preachers.
Incredibly, Philip still failed to respond. Although over the winter of 1565—66 he
considered travelling to the Netherlands in person with an army, news that the
Turks would again send their main fleet west dissuaded him: in April they took
Chios, the last Genoese outpost in the Aegean, and only in August 1566 did it
become certain that their galleys had entered the Adriatic and so would probably
not attack one of Philip’s possessions. His silence concerning developments in the
Netherlands provoked Egmont to warn him directly that ‘the sluggishness with
which Your Majesty takes decisions on the affairs of this country is damaging both
our Catholic faith and your service’. From Rome, Pope Pius V bombarded the
king with pleas to travel immediately to the Netherlands in order to restore order
‘before it is too late’.^*
The Formation of Grand Strategy The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1333—77 121
In the absence of forceful leadership from the king and his demoralized servants,
Calvinist preachers in the province of Flanders began to urge their audiences
to enter Catholic churches and forcibly remove all images - stained glass, statues,
paintings — in order to ‘purify’ the edifices for Reformed worship. When the first
few outbreaks of iconoclasm went unpunished, the movement gathered
momentum and by the end of the month some 400 churches and countless lesser
shrines all over the Netherlands had been desecrated. Misled by the ease with
which the Iconoclastic Fury occurred, Margaret of Parma hysterically warned her
brother that half the population of the Netherlands was infected with heresy and
that 200,000 people had taken up arms against her authority. She also asserted
that only two options now remained open: either to allow full religious toleration,
or to restore religious and political control by force.Initially, Philip tried to do
both. Confessing weakly that ‘in truth I cannot understand how such a great evil
could have arisen and spread in such a short time’, he signed a letter to Margaret
which abolished the Inquisition, suspended the laws against heresy and authorized
her to pardon the opposition leaders (although after a few days he made a
declaration before a notary that the concessions had only been made under duress
and were therefore not binding); he also dispatched orders to recruit 13,000
German troops for service in the Netherlands and sent a bill of exchange for
300,000 ducats to pay for them.
As the agent of one of the Netherlands nobles at Court grimly predicted upon
hearing of the iconoclasm: ‘Sooner or later His Majesty cannot fail to exact
vengeance for such great disrespect and if he does leave Spain it will be with more
strength and power than any king ever took to the Low Countries’. Confirmation
that Suleiman had invaded Hungary in person with the Turkish main army, and
sent his fleet into the Adriatic instead of into the western Mediterranean, gave
Philip more room for manoeuvre; then in September came the news that the
sultan had died on campaign, provoking mutinies and provincial revolts in his
empire. Now, at last, the king could concentrate — for the first time since his
departure in 1559 — on the Low Countries. The change came not a moment too
soon: as his Spanish advisers pointed out on hearing of the Iconoclastic Fury, ‘If
the Netherlands situation is not remedied, it will bring about the loss of Spain and
all the rest’.^ After a series of council meetings, Philip (who, exceptionally,
attended in person) resolved to return to the Netherlands, preceded by a powerful
army. Since the loyalty of all the coastal provinces of the Netherlands seemed
suspect, the troops would have to travel from Spain to Milan, and thence across
the Alps and overland; once they had ended the troubles, Philip would sail from
Santander back to the Netherlands and supervise the restoration of order. At
first the king intended his army to march before the winter snows closed the
Alpine passes, but neither the duke of Savoy nor the duke of Parma accepted
his invitation to serve as commander. So on 29 November Philip appointed the
duke of Alba instead. This inevitably delayed the whole operation until the
spring, and some feared that the Mediterranean might not remain at peace for
another year, but Alba left Spain in April 1567 and led his force of 10,000 Spanish
veterans across the Alps in June. He entered Brussels unopposed on 22 August
1567.''
Philip now at last had a golden opportunity to redress the damage that his
neglect had caused. The Netherlands were at peace, with many rebels dead and the
rest fled; a new religious war broke out in France in September, offering some
security from that quarter; and at Santander a powerful fleet stood by, ready to
carry him and his Court northwards. On 7 August, however, even before the duke
reached Brussels, the king resolved to remain in Spain until the following spring.
His desire to keep the decision entirely secret led him to encode personally much
of the eight-page letter of explanation to Alba, which ‘nobody knows that I am
writing to you’, and he reviewed in detail several implications of the change:
Margaret of Parma would need to be replaced as regent in the Netherlands, and
Philip raised the possibility of sending his young brother Don John, whom Alba
could train so that he would be ready to take over after the king’s visit; further
funds would be required to maintain all the Spanish troops for the additional
months, and the duke must find ways to secure them; the punishment of those
implicated in the troubles, which Alba had been instructed to carry out at once,
could now be delayed until the winter, in the hope that ‘this might offer reassurance
to the prince of Orange, so that he will want to return to those provinces
(although I doubt it), for it would be a great thing to be able to deal with him as
he deserves, because if we punish the others first it would rule out dealing with
him for ever. Nevertheless’, the king concluded, ‘I remit all this to you, as the
person who will be on the spot, with better understanding of the advantages and
disadvantages which might arise in all this, and of whether to act swiftly or slowly
in the matter of punishments, on which so much depends.
The king’s decision to put off his departure and to leave Alba in charge a proved
fatal error. The duke wasted no time in pressing ahead with ‘the punishments’:
only five days after entering Brussels he set up a secret tribunal to try those
accused of heresy and rebellion, and early in September he had Egmont and other
Netherlands leaders arrested. Margaret of Parma, outraged by the detention of her
former advisers, resigned almost immediately, forcing Alba to take over the
civil government of the provinces himself. Orange, just as the king had feared,
remained in Germany. Then, in the spring of 1568, the prince and his supporters
launched a major invasion which Alba only defeated after mobilizing almost
70,000 troops, at vast cost, and campaigning for several months. Meanwhile in
Spain, the behaviour of Don Carlos, heir to the Spanish throne, became so erratic
and intemperate that the king arrested him and placed him in preventive custody.
By the time Alba had triumphed in the Netherlands, Don Carlos was dead and so
was Philip’s queen, Elisabeth de ’Valois, whom he had intended to leave as his
regent while he revisited Brussels. Moreover, at Christmas 1568 a serious
rebellion broke out among the Moriscos of Granada, which spread rapidly the
following year, and in 1570 the Turks resumed their Mediterranean offensive,
invading the ’Venetian island of Cyprus. Philip could no longer leave Spain.
122 The Formation of Grand Strategy The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1^33—JJ 123
Instead the king reverted to the techniques of government by ‘remote control’
that had proved so inadequate in the past. He insisted — as in 1559 — both on
ordering the implementation of difficult and delicate new policies and on circumscribing
the independence of his lieutenant. Apart from impusing a much larger
contingent of Spanish troops and requiring the full implementation of the new
bishoprics scheme, the king ordered Alba to create a new legal tribunal to deal
with those accused of rebellion (the ‘Council of Troubles’ tried some 12,000 cases
between 1567 and 1573), to streamline the entire legal system and to introduce
important new taxes to pay for it all. As Alba observed soon after his arrival in
Brussels: ‘If Your Majesty looks closely at what is to be done, you will see that it
amounts to creating a New World’.Although separated by 1,000 kilometres
from events, Philip sought to supervise all these initiatives himself, imposing
restrictive instructions on Alba and requiring detailed information from all his
agents abroad in an effort to maintain personal control. ‘I charge you always to tell
me everything you know,’ he hectored his ambassador in Paris, because ‘I both
want and need to know in detail what is happening there [in France] and in the
Netherlands’. In 1568, worried again about the absence of news, the same diplomat
received orders that ‘to end the suspense in which the king finds himself’
about developments in the Low Countries, Alba should send a weekly report on
affairs ‘which Your Lordship can forward to us here by various routes’. Ministers
in Madrid longed (like their master: p. 52 above) for an airmail service: ‘If Your
Lordship knew how much store the king places on knowing what is happening
there [in France] and in the Netherlands, I tell you that you would send it by
a■i r, .24
Although the king’s interference irritated the duke profoundly, for a while he
succeeded in creating his ‘new world’ in the Netherlands, thereby leaving Philip
free to create a massive fleet (maintained jointly by the ‘Holy League’ he had
signed with ’Venice and the Papacy) which in October 1571 inflicted a crushing
defeat on the Ottoman navy at the battle of Lepanto. The Turks made good their
naval losses remarkably swiftly, however, forcing the king to allocate an even
larger share of his resources to the Mediterranean theatre in 1572. He intensified
his pressure on Alba to finance his expensive regime entirely from local taxes,
especially from a sales tax known as the alcabala or ‘Tenth Penny’. Alba did his
best: in March 1572 he moved detachments of troops into the premises of
shopkeepers and merchants who had ceased business in protest at the sales tax
(levied without the consent of the provincial states), but pleaded with
the king to continue sending money from Spain to subsidize his army until his
draconian measures took effect. Philip, preoccupied with Mediterranean defence,
proved unsympathetic: ‘With the Holy League and so many other things that
must be paid for from here, it is impossible to meet the needs of the Netherlands
to the same extent as we have been doing up to now.’ Subsequent letters commanded
the duke to start collecting the Tenth Penny forthwith since ‘It is very
necessary and indeed unavoidable to do so, because we cannot send you any more
124
money from here . . . My treasury has reached the state where no source of income
or money-raising device remains which will yield a single ducat.
Yet again, Philip’s attempt to micromanage policy from a distance had created
fatal tensions. As Alba anxiously pointed out to a senior colleague in Madrid: ‘I
have no doubt that the royal treasury must be in a desperate state, and for that
reason I am going almost out of my mind as I see matters proceed in such a way
that if some new problem, however small, were to arise. His Majesty’s resources
are so exhausted that he might not have the strength to resist’. The duke
concluded by wishing that he could come to Court himself to ‘throw myself at His
Majesty’s feet and beg him to look at what he is doing’ — at this point, however.
Alba thought better of his bluntness and crossed out the last few words, substituting
‘and beg him to have these things carefully examined, because they
endanger both God’s service and his own’.^^
Alba’s regime had alienated almost everyone, both at home and abroad. In 1567
and again in 1569, on Philip’s orders, the duke sent troops into France to help the
government’s forces to defeat its Protestant subjects; in 1569 he also confiscated
all English property in the Netherlands and in 1571 he became involved — albeit
reluctantly — in Philip’s plan to invade England in support of a plot to dethrone
Elizabeth Tudor. None of these policy initiatives earned him many friends in the
states that surrounded the Netherlands. Moreover, although he had defeated the
attempts of William of Orange and other rebels to overthrow his regime in 1568,
some 60,000 Netherlanders had fled into exile abroad where they longed for the
day when they could exact revenge. Forces loyal to Orange, based in England,
attempted invasions and failed only because the duke placed some 1,200 Spanish
veterans in strategic locations throughout Holland (companies guarded Brill,
Haarlem, Leiden, Alkmaar and so on) to guard against surprise attack. But both
the garrisons and the towns concerned complained that this placed an intolerable
strain on their food resources and so in October 1571 Alba recalled the troops to
the citadel of Utrecht, where they spent the winter in greater comfort. Everywhere
in the Netherlands discontent with the regime mounted — by no means solely
because of the duke’s attempts to raise the Tenth Penny: in 1571 and early 1572
a plague epidemic ravaged the country, trade languished, bread prices soared,
storms caused widespread flooding and heavy frosts and snows froze the rivers. In
March 1572 a shrewd observer in Brussels reviewed the unprecedented economic
crisis and predicted that ‘If the prince of Orange had conserved his forces until a
time like this, his enterprise would have succeeded’.
This danger had not escaped Alba’s attention and he resolved both to send
4,000 Spaniards back into coastal garrisons in Holland for the summer and to
build a citadel in Flushing (the most important port in Zealand, controlling access
to the river system of Flanders and Brabant, the richest provinces).Unfortunately
for him on i April 1572, while the Spanish troops detailed to guard the
coast remained at Utrecht, a force of about 1,100 outlaws and exiles (popularly
known as the ‘Sea Beggars’) made a daring descent on Brill.
The Formation of Grand Strategy 125
Alba and his lieutenants reacted to the outbreak of rebellion with impressive
speed and initiative. Philip’s agents had already divined the Sea Beggars’ intentions:
on 3 February Don Guerau de Spes, formerly Spanish ambassador in
England, arrived in Brussels and warned Alba that the Beggars intended to attack
one of the islands of Zealand, and on 25 March his successor provided even more
detailed intelligence, writing that they lurked off Dover, ‘Broadcasting among
themselves that they awaited the arrival of some friends so that, all together, they
could attack Brill on the island of Voorne’. This letter reached Brussels on 2
April - just too late to be acted upon - but Count Bossu, governor of the province
of Holland, had already heard rumours of the presence of enemy vessels off the
coast and led a force of 200 men to Maassluis, which he reached at dawn on
the 2nd. There, learning of the fall of Brill the previous day, he immediately
summoned reinforcements from the Spanish garrison at Utrecht. Thanks to his
prompt and vigorous action, by 4 April (the day news of the Beggars’ landing
reached Brussels) Bossu had assembled a force of some 1,200 veteran troops on
the mainland less than ten kilometres from Brill.By the time enough boats had
been assembled to ferry the troops to the island of Voorne, however, contrary
winds held them back; and by the time the wind changed, the Sea Beggars
had received reinforcements and now outnumbered the Spaniards, who perforce
withdrew.^”
Bossu’s garrisons along the Maas nevertheless managed to repulse almost every
move made by the rebels to extend their base in South Holland. Even in Zealand,
although the Beggars managed to take Flushing on 22 April, the government
rushed reinforcements into Middelburg (the provincial capital) and some other
strategic locations. The situation only deteriorated on 21 May with the defection
to the Sea Beggars of the well-fortified port of Enkhuizen, for this opened North
Holland — previously a safe area — to the rebels, at a time when the government
had its forces fully committed further south.’With three enemy bridgeheads
- Brill, Flushing, Enkhuizen - to contend with, Bossu now stood in desperate
need of reinforcements, and he appealed to Alba for urgent assistance. Bitter
disappointment awaited him.
Had the Sea Beggars’ descent on Holland remained the only problem facing the
duke in 1572, it would no doubt have been solved relatively swiftly; but, in the
event, four other incursions followed the capture of Brill with breathtaking speed.
Ever since the failure of their invasion in 1568, William of Orange and his brother
Louis had laboured in exile to mobilize foreign support for their cause, even
moving to France in 1569 to fight in person in the army of the Protestant
opponents of Charles IX. The following year, despite several victories, Charles
made peace with his rebellious subjects and the Protestant leader, Gaspard de
Coligny, entered the king’s council; Louis of Nassau travelled to Paris to join him.
The French Protestants eventually promised to take part in a new invasion of the
Netherlands to be organized by Orange, and on 24 May 1572, three days after the
fall of Enkhuizen, a group of French Protestants led by Louis of Nassau took by
surprise the city of Mons in Hainaut, defended by a powerful circuit of Italian-
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1333—77
126
style defences (a simultaneous attempt to take nearby Valenciennes failed).^^ Two
weeks later Orange’s brother-in-law, Count van den Berg, crossed the frontier of
Gelderland with an army raised in Germany and took several strategic towns
including Zutphen, the regional capital, which likewise possessed new-style
fortifications. On 7 July Orange himself crossed from Germany with another army
and began to capture towns in Limburg, while five days later a second French
Protestant force set out from Paris with the intention of reinforcing Mons. Most
observers expected that Charles, influenced by Coligny, would shortly declare war
on Spain.^^
Faced by so many different threats Alba seems briefly to have panicked:
according to a well-informed source, he sought the advice of ‘some theologians
who claim the ability to predict the future’ while his advisers desperately consulted
works of necromancy. In the light of this (and no doubt other) advice, he
soon regained his self-control and took two crucial decisions.First, although
well aware that his master’s resources were stretched to the limit by the war in the
Mediterranean, on his own initiative the duke increased his armed forces in
response to each new crisis from 13,000 in March to 67,000 in August 1572.
Second, he decided that absolute priority must be given to the defence of the
southern frontier in view of the danger of a French declaration of war. Accordingly,
despite the steady progress of the rebels in the north. Alba not only refused
to reinforce his hard-pressed subordinates there but even withdrew their best
troops southwards: on 15 June he ordered Bossu to send him all the Spanish troops
in Holland, and ten days later he instructed the governor of Gelderland to send
him a regiment too.^^ Both commanders protested vigorously, predicting (correctly)
that this would cause the loss of areas that would prove extremely difficult
and expensive to recover later, and they delayed carrying out Alba’s orders for as
long as they could; but the duke insisted.^'’
His gamble began to pay off in late July when Spanish troops ambushed and
almost wiped out the French Protestant force marching to reinforce Mons. Then
the assassination of Coligny followed by the St Bartholomew’s Day massacre of
Protestants in Paris (23—24 August) temporarily ruled out further French intervention
in the Netherlands.^^ Two days later. Alba - dressed (as was his custom
on campaign) from head to foot in brilliant blue - finally set out for Mons and two
weeks later, ‘on one of the most beautiful days ever seen’, he personally directed
the repulse of a desperate attempt by Orange and his army to break through the
siegeworks and relieve Mons. The prince fell back and advised the beleaguered
garrison to make the best terms it could.^*
This marked a turning-point in the revolt because, with Orange in full
retreat and the danger from France neutralized. Alba and his massive army
could now counter-attack. Several alternative strategies lay open. First, the duke
could pursue Orange’s main force and try to compel it into fighting; but that was
not his style. In 1568, when the prince invaded the Netherlands with an army for
the first time. Alba had acted with great caution. In the words of one of his field
commanders:
The Formation of Grand Strategy The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1353—J 7 127
The duke has laboured specifically to avoid fighting a battle, despite pressure
from those who forget that victory is a gift of Fortune, which can benefit the
Bad as well as the Good. If Orange were a powerful monarch who could
maintain a mighty army for longer, I would be in favour of fighting a battle;
but since it is certain that shortage of money will cause his forces to crumble,
and that he will not then be able to regroup, I am against it.
In the event the duke’s men skirmished for twenty-nine days continuously until
Orange’s army finally disintegrated and fled.^^ In 1572 other considerations
reinforced Alba’s prudent military approach: some fifty towns had declared for the
rebels so that winning a single battle would not necessarily force their surrender
(Plate 20). Yet attempting to reduce systematically every town in rebel hands
likewise made little sense, since many boasted Italian-style defences and could
withstand a siege for months. Alba therefore chose a strategy of selective brutality
towards the rebellious towns, calculating that a few examples of terror would
accelerate the process of pacification. At first the policy proved spectacularly
successful. Mechelen, which had refused to accept a royal garrison in June and
had then welcomed the prince of Orange’s troops in August, was taken by storm
and subjected to a horrifying sack which lasted three days. Even before the
screams abated, the other rebellious towns in Flanders and Brabant made haste
to surrender, ‘So now the entire country on this side of the Maas is secure’ (as
Claude de Mondoucet, a French envoy in the duke’s camp, noted with reluctant
admiration).
Since Orange’s forces still controlled almost all the major towns along the rivers
Maas and Rhine, the duke could not advance directly into Holland, but had to
march north-eastwards into Gelderland and recapture the rebellious areas there in
order to protect his lines of communication. In November, his forces moved
against Zutphen, the strongest town in the area, which (like Mechelen) had not
only refused to accept a royalist garrison but then promptly defected to the rebels.
Once again, ‘beastliness’ paid off: after the brutal sack of the city. Alba proudly
informed the king that ‘Gelderland and Overijssel have been conquered with the
capture of Zutphen and the terror that it caused’.The rebel centres in Friesland,
too, soon surrendered: this time the duke pardoned them all.‘^^
Now, at last. Alba could deal with the provinces where the ‘troubles’ had
started. No one seems to have envisaged great difficulties: even Mondoucet (no
friend of Spain) believed that ‘Since the population of Holland is not warlike and
lacks spirit, every town will seek to surrender when the duke’s army approaches’.
Nevertheless, Alba resolved to make an example of one more rebellious centre in
order to encourage the surrender of the rest. Naarden, the first town across the
provincial boundary of Holland, obligingly declined to surrender when summoned
early in December and, in the duke’s own words, ‘The Spanish infantry
gained the walls and massacred citizens and soldiers. Not a mother’s son
escaped.Almost immediately, just as Alba had predicted, envoys from Haarlem
(the nearest rebel stronghold) arrived at the camp; but they asked to negotiate.
Plate 20 The 1572 campaign. The duke of Alba faced five separate invasions in the course of
1572. In April a small fleet carrying some 1,100 exiles, known as the Sea Beggars, captured the
small port of Brill in South Holland in the name of the prince of Orange. From there they
exploited local discontent in order to gain control of the key ports of Flushing in Zealand and
Enkhuisen in North Holland. In May another group of exiles and some French Protestant
supporters, led by Orange’s brother Louis of Nassau, seized the heavily fortified city of Mons in the
south, and a month later a German force commanded by Count William van den Berg (Orange’s
brother-in-law) seized the equally well-defended town of Zutphen in the east. Alba began to
withdraw troops from the outlying provinces in order to concentrate on the siege of Mons, which
encouraged several towns in Holland to declare for Orange. Meanwhile, in July, the prince
advanced with a large army from Germany into the eastern Netherlands, while another force of
French Protestants crossed the southern frontier: both aimed to relieve Mons. They failed. In July
the French were ambushed and almost annihilated; in September a desperate attempt by Orange
to break through the siegeworks miscarried. The prince and his troops retreated northwards,
leaving Mons — and the rest of the towns that had declared for him — to make the best terms they
could. By December Alba’s army had pacified all but parts of Holland and Zealand.
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, i335~77 129
instead of offering unconditional surrender. After the rigours of eight months of
bloody campaign, the Spaniards refused to discuss terms and sent the delegates of
Haarlem home to think again.
This proved to be a rash decision for two reasons. The rebel cause had put down
far deeper roots in Holland and Zealand than in the other provinces. Haarlem, like
other leading towns, had not been surprised by Orangist forces like Mechelen or
Zutphen: rebel cadres within had declared spontaneously for the prince, opened
the gates and allowed a large number of exiles (many of them from prominent
local families) to return home to take charge. Then, assisted by local supporters,
the new rulers purged and reformed the town’s government, closed Catholic
churches and allowed Calvinist worship, and sent delegates to the provincial
Estates which assembled almost spontaneously and ruled most of Holland in the
name of Orange. These circumstances naturally produced a greater determination
to resist, because those who had flouted the king s authority in both politics and
religion so flagrantly knew they could expect no mercy. If any doubted this, the
fate of Naarden soon convinced them.^"^ Moreover, for the strategic reasons noted
above. Alba’s troops arrived in the area last, which gave the rebel regime there far
longer to generate a revolutionary fervour and tenacity and, equally important, to
build and garrison new Italian-style fortifications (as at Haarlem and Alkmaar)
and to begin flooding the surrounding areas to keep besiegers at bay (as at
Leiden).
On the other hand, by December Spain’s forces were far weaker. The very
success of Alba’s campaign had dramatically reduced the size of his field army,
both because the various ‘actions’ of the war, especially the sieges of Mons and
Zutphen, caused relatively high casualties among the front-line troops, and
because each rebellious town recaptured, whether by brutality or clemency,
required a garrison. After Naarden, Alba’s field army numbered scarcely 12,000
effectives.^^ To contemplate the siege of a town like Haarlem - which boasted a
garrison of over 3,000 men and strong defences — with such a relatively small force
would have been rash at any time; but in the depths of winter, with the possibility
of having to dig siegeworks in the frozen earth, it seemed foolhardy in the
^ 47 extreme.
Such conduct appeared all the more surprising in the duke of Alba, a general
with thirty years’ experience of command and a universal reputation for prudence.^^
Furthermore, in this particular instance, personal recollection should
have reinforced his instincts because he had commanded the Habsburg forces at
the unsuccessful siege of Metz, called off after three months in December 1552
mainly because the besiegers could no longer endure the cold.^^ Several reasons
explain Alba’s fatal disregard of this precedent. To begin with, after three months
‘sleeping rough’ at the head of his troops, the duke (now 66 years old) fell ill and
had to stay behind at Nijmegen, leaving his inexperienced and arrogant son, Don
Fadrique de Toledo, to take the fateful decision to reject Haarlem’s offer to
surrender on terms.By the time the duke heard about it, the opportunity for
clemency had passed. Even had he been present, however. Alba might himself
130 The Formation of Grand Strategy
have insisted on unconditional surrender. To begin with, the ‘strategy of selective
brutality appeared to be working again; the delegation from Haarlem was followed
by others equally anxious to make peace before the Army of Flanders
approached their town. The entire revolt might therefore collapse, if only the
Spaniards could persevere for a few more weeks.^^ Second, Alba worried that if the
rebellion continued into the spring of 1573, it might gain further assistance from
Spam s enemies abroad - from France, England and the German Protestants. One
^ his few foreign allies had already warned him that ‘it was not the prince of
Orange or the counts of Nassau who made war in the Netherlands, but its
neighbours, because of the hatred they bore towards His Excellency’. On this score
too. Alba felt, one more show of force to end the uprising swiftly seemed worth
the risk. Third, and most pressing of all, perseverance with the war appeared to
make financial sense. All early modern armies expected some wage arrears before
they went into winter quarters, but in December 1572 Alba could pay nothing at
all. Even before the ‘troubles’ started, he owed his Spanish troops one year’s back
wages and by December twenty months’, while he owed the new (and more
numerous) Netherlands units six months’. The German regiments had received
nothing since they enlisted. So it seemed to the duke not only ‘cheaper’ to fight
on; It also reduced the risk of mutiny by the troops who - although somewhat
placated by the plunder gained at Mechelen, Zutphen and Naarden - suffered
greatly because of the high cost of victuals in war-torn Holland.”
One thousand kilometres away in Spain, as in 1566 the king realized that
his policies had misfired catastrophically. Already in the autumn of 1571, in
response to Alba’s repeated requests to be allowed to return to Court, Philip had
appointed the duke of Medinaceli, a grandee with considerable military and
administrative experience, to succeed; but he could not decide on either the right
policy for him to follow or even the right moment for him to take over. The
unfortunate duke therefore received contradictory instructions; those drawn up by
hihp s French language secretary, reflecting the views of Ruy Gomez and many
Netherlanders, urged Medinaceli to pursue a policy of reconciliation and gentleness;
those prepared by the Spanish secretary of state, which incorporated the
policy of Alba s allies at Court, commanded Medinaceli to collaborate with his
predecessor and to follow his policies, forbidding him to attempt any new measures
without express orders from Madrid. To inspissate the obscurity, the king’s
private secretary showed Medinaceli ‘all the papers of complaints (against Alba}
that I have m my possession (which we will be using in due course), for his
information, preparation and secret knowledge, in order to convince him that he
can report back here clearly’.”
As so often, Philip tried to do too many things at once. He decided that
Medinaceli should go to the Netherlands by sea, together with a large fleet of
vessels carrying reinforcements for the Army of Flanders; then he repeatedly
delayed the fleet s departure from Spain, in case the troops could be used to assist
a rising of English Catholics against Queen Elizabeth (p. 161 below). By the time
they finally arrived m the Netherlands, in June 1572, Alba’s policies had
produced widespread rebellion which precluded his replacement, and so his
designated successor, with little else to do, began to ingratiate himself with the
leading Netherlands nobles and, as instructed, relayed their views directly to the
king in a clandestine correspondence carried by his own special messengers. This,
as Mateo Vazquez (who handled the correspondence) pointed out, ‘enables Your
Majesty to learn what is happening without anyone being aware of the fact’ and
the king enthusiastically authorized its continuation, adding, ‘I want no one to
learn of this’.”
It is worth lingering for a moment over this episode because it epitomized so
many of the faults inherent in Philip’s style of government. It made no sense to tie
Medinaceli’s departure to that of a fleet prepared for an entirely different purpose;
even without the foolish attempt to link the fleet’s departure to events in England
over which Spain had no control, getting any major expedition to sea inevitably
risked delay (when Philip finally authorized Medinaceli to sail, adverse winds held
him back until i May 1572; almost immediately a storm struck his fleet and
dispersed it to various ports; it only dropped anchor in the Netherlands on 13
June). Medinaceli could have travelled separately, either by sea or through France,
and replaced the hated duke of Alba long before the outbreak of rebellion — thus
perhaps neutralizing much of Orange’s local support. Leaving the governordesignate
in the Netherlands with no clear role to play made no sense either. He
consistently advocated a conciliatory line, both in the council and in his secret
letters to the king, but to no avail; Alba’s arguments always prevailed. Thus at a
meeting of Alba’s council of war in September 1572, as the Spanish army moved
on Mechelen, Medinaceli urged that as many innocent people as possible should
be spared, to which his rival replied icily ‘that he did not know who the innocent
were, and if his lordship knew, he should tell him. And with that the council
broke up.’”
Back in Spain, the king could not decide what to do. When he received news
of the revolt, and of the probability of French involvement, Philip immediately
ordered Don John of Austria, in command of the fleet of the Holy League, to
remain where he was — at Messina in Sicily — and to undertake no action
against Muslim forces until receiving further orders (thereby enraging both the
Venetians and the pope). Furthermore, the king approved Alba’s decision to
follow the Habsburgs’ traditional operational strategy of employing overwhelming
force in order to achieve swift success (as in 1546—47 against the
German Protestants, in 1543-44, 1552-53 and 1557-58 against France, and in
1568 against William of Orange’s invasion) and, in spite of his recent litany of
protests about the total exhaustion of his treasury, managed to raise large sums of
money to finance the rapid increase in the size of the Army of Flanders. The great
risk with this strategy, however, lay in the absolute need for rapid success; neither
the economic nor the diplomatic situation of the Habsburg Monarchy could
permit a massive military effort in one area indefinitely. That was the real reason
why rejecting Haarlem’s offer to negotiate proved so significant, for Spain’s forces
could not capture the city without a blockade and a blockade would take months.
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1333—77 ^31
132 The Formation of Grand Strategy
exhausting the king’s resources and allowing his enemies elsewhere to exploit the
situation. In the end, it is true, the town surrendered unconditionally — but only
in July 1573, after a siege lasting seven months during which the Spaniards lost
thousands of men, the rebels gained a number of strongholds elsewhere, and the
king spent over 2 million ducats.
Long before this, Philip had lost patience with Alba and those at Court who
supported him. ‘I will never have enough money to assuage your appetite,’ he
informed the duke with uncharacteristic bluntness, ‘but I can easily find a
successor able and steadfast enough to end by moderation and clemency a war that
you have not been able to end by force’.In January 1573, since the initial success
of the ‘strategy of selective brutality’ had discredited Medinaceli and the stalemate
in the trenches before Haarlem now undermined Alba, the king decided to recall
both dukes and informed Don Luis de Requesens, one of his childhood playmates
and a man who had managed to remain unaffected by the factional rivalries at
Court, that he should forthwith take charge in the Netherlands and attempt
to end the war ‘by moderation and clemency’. According to Philip’s letter of
appointment.
Wars, misfortunes and other events have reduced the Low Countries to such a
miserable state that, despite the successful course of the war in terms of
capturing and recovering the towns in rebellion (which I trust in God will be
swiftly and favourably completed), I am deeply concerned. For the discharge of
my conscience, for the security and conservation of those provinces, and for the
repair of so much damage, I am convinced that it is necessary to find a lasting
settlement there.
In the king’s opinion, finding an immediate and permanent solution to the
Netherlands problem constituted ‘the greatest and most important enterprise
with which I have had, or could have, to deal’.^^ Unfortunately for the king’s plans
Requesens, serving at this time as governor of Milan, regarded his new appointment
as a poisoned chalice: ‘the position there is hopeless’, he confided to his
brother as he began a sustained campaign to persuade the king to find someone
else for the post. Philip found it necessary to write no fewer than five long
holograph letters — cajoling and hectoring by turns — before his reluctant nominee
consented to leave Milan. Given the distance involved, each exchange took up
almost a month and Requesens only rode reluctantly into Brussels in October
1573-^^
This extraordinary series of delays in replacing Alba fatally undermined
all chances of turning the fall of Haarlem (in July) to advantage. William of
Orange’s closest adviser, Philip Marnix, feared that the city’s surrender might
cause the collapse of the revolt and the duke of Medinaceli, still malevolently
yet impotently monitoring Alba’s conduct of the war, agreed. He warned the
king:
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, lyyy—jj 133
Affairs have now reached the point where either they will be brought to a
speedy conclusion or else they will last a long time; and, in my opinion, this
depends on the decisions to be taken on how to proceed in Holland, because a
lot of towns [there} remain to be reduced, besides the seas and Zealand . .
Alba and his son as usual ignored Medinaceli, however, and instead frittered their
chances away. Although they imposed only a relatively modest fine on Haarlem
when it surrendered, they ordered the execution of some sixty burghers and 2,300
soldiers of the garrison in cold blood (Plate 21). Admittedly, shortly after this
Alba offered a limited pardon to any rebels who surrendered, which again alarmed
the Dutch leaders; but not for long. The duke’s shortage of money caused the
unpaid Spanish regiments to mutiny until he had paid at least a part of their wage
arrears, depriving Alba of two weeks of prime campaigning season; and the
massacre of so many defenders strengthened the resolve of other rebellious towns
Plate 21 The execution of the Haarlem garrison. Just as the Spanish army re-entered Holland in December 1572,
Orange managed to rush German, French, English and Scots reinforcements into Haarlem, and the civic leaders
who had declared for the prince a few months before therefore decided to reject Alba’s demand for unconditional
surrender. Seven months later, however, after the failure of all attempts at relief, the town placed itself at the
Spaniards’ mercy. They executed some sixty burghers and most of the garrison, over 2,000 men, sparing only some
English and Germans. Walter Morgan, an English volunteer in Dutch service, who copied several contemporary
prints of Spanish defeats and atrocities into his ‘campaign journal’, included a sketch of the mass executions at
Haarlem in July 1573. It shows the burghers being hanged while the garrison is either beheaded in the market
place or thrown into the river Spaarn (beside one of the bastions that had made the town so hard to capture).
134
to resist. As Cardinal Granvelle, in semi-exile in Italy, sagely observed, ‘the duke
of Alba now complains that other areas have not surrendered spontaneously, but
he should remember that there are soldiers defending the [other] towns who,
fearing the same treatment as the garrison of Haarlem, will fight to the last
man’. The duke’s second crucial error at this point was to move against Alkmaar,
a relatively insignificant town in North Holland, but newly fortified in the Italian
style and surrounded by flooded land. Alba anticipated that Alkmaar would prove
an easy target, and indeed many of the town’s inhabitants at first favoured
surrender; but even his ingenious floating batteries and assault pontoons failed to
take it. Equally serious, the abortive siege postponed by six more weeks the entry
of Philip’s forces into South Holland and Zealand, the core of the uprising.^^
Meanwhile the Army of Flanders absorbed 500,000 ducats each and every
month and the Mediterranean fleet almost as much again (Table 4). At the same
time, France began again to undermine Spain’s position: in Constantinople
Charles IX’s envoy secured from the sultan peace terms for Venice (March 1573)
and a guarantee of protection for the Papal States (June 1573), leaving the king
of Spain to withstand Turkish assaults in the Mediterranean virtually alone;
meanwhile Charles and his younger brothers all sent assistance to the Dutch.^^
This dangerous financial and diplomatic conjuncture naturally led both Philip
and his senior commanders to give active consideration to alternative strategies for
winning the war against the Dutch.
The first and most obvious of these involved making peace with the Turks in
order to concentrate on the Low Countries. In 1572 the king had held back his
fleet until he could be sure that France did not intend to declare war on him; but
from July onwards his commitment to the Holy League remained firm, and even
news of Venice’s defection did not change it. In the Netherlands, Alba despaired
and launched several appeals for Philip merely to strengthen the fortifications of
outposts that the Turks might attack:
Because they cannot harm His Majesty on dry land, and still less can he harm
them; so that everything spent on the League is wasted, and the fleet at
risk ... I beat my head against the wall when I hear talk about what we are
spending here, since it is not the Turks who are disturbing Christendom but
the heretics, and they are already within the gates.
To the duke (as to many others), defending the Netherlands seemed more important
than attacking the Turks. Philip did not agree: to him it seemed that God’s
cause must be upheld against all-comers; and, besides, to seek peace from the
Ottoman sultan would be to lose reputation. His Mediterranean fleet therefore
remained on its war footing and, as if by way of reward, captured Tunis from its
Turkish vassal later in the year.^
This did not mean, however, that the king eschewed all alternatives to subduing
the Dutch Revolt by conventional means. For example, he and many of his
ministers sponsored attempts to assassinate William of Orange in the hope that
The Formation of Grand Strategy
135 The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1353-77
The cost of war on two fronts, 1571-77
Year
Money received from Castile (in ducats)
By the Mediterranean fleet By the Army of Flanders
1571 793,000 1572 1,463,000 119,000 1,776,000 1573 1,102,000 1,813,000 1574 1,252,000 3,737,000 1575 711,000 2,518,000 1576 1,069,000 872,000 1577 673,000 857,000
Total 7,063,000 11,692,000
Table 4 The cost to Spain of defeating the Turks at Lepanto in 1571 remained relatively low,
thanks to contributions from Philip’s Italian dominions as well as from his allies. The campaign
of the following year, although it achieved nothing, cost twice as much; and after Venice
made a separate peace in 1573 Philip’s subjects had to shoulder almost the entire burden of
Mediterranean defence. At the same time, the cost of suppressing the Dutch Revolt soared. Since
the total revenues of the crown of Castile barely exceeded six million ducats, of which half went
on servicing previous loans, the treasury quickly ran up huge debts. In September 1575 Philip
issued a decree of bankruptcy’ suspending all payments.
without him the revolt would founder. The technique had been employed frequently
elsewhere in the recent past - in France against factional leaders (the duke
of Guise, Anthony of Navarre, Gaspard de Coligny), in Scotland against King
Henry Darnley. One of Alba s lieutenants, referring to the period between 1567
and 1570? claimed that All the time I was in Flanders I did nothing except try
to find someone who would kill the prince of Orange’. In 1573 the duke sent
‘Niccolo the Albanian’ and others to murder both Orange and his brother Louis
and, after the surrender of Haarlem, the duke spared William Balfour, one of the
Scottish captains in the garrison, in return for his promise to kill Orange. (Balfour
immediately betrayed his mission to the prince and continued to fight for the
Dutch cause until his death.) Later that year Gabriel de Zayas, Philip’s secretary
of state, again enquired hopefully about the possibility of assassination, and so did
the Spanish ambassador in Rome, Don Juan de Zuniga, in 1574.^^ The subject
remained on Spains agenda until Oranges eventual assassination in 1584; but,
long before that, some realized that the prince s removal from the scene would no
longer be enough to end the revolt. Don Frances de Alava, formerly Spanish
ambassador in France and a stern critic of the policy of maximum force in the
Netherlands, noted in the summer of 1574 that although ‘ending the lives of
Orange and [Count] Louis offered obvious attractions, ‘their deaths would not
reconcile the spirits of that people [the Dutch] nor would it restore at a stroke the
places which are in rebellion against Your Majesty’.^^
Even as the attractions of this alternative waned, however, another suggested
itself to Philip’s strategists. Early in 1574 they decided to try their luck in South
Holland, realizing (correctly) that the city of Leiden offered the key to success in
The Formation of Grand Strategy
crushing the rebellion, for its capture would both separate the rebels of North
Holland from those of Zealand and weaken the stranglehold of the ports of
Zealand on the trade of the southern provinces. Leiden possessed a substantial
population, defended by redoubts and bastions as well as by many flooded fields,
so that it could only be taken by blockade; but, assisted by a number of supporters
in the area who provided advice and even maps, field commander Francisco de
Valdes managed to invest the town in March. Almost at once, however, Louis of
Nassau invaded the east Netherlands with another army raised in Germany,
forcing most royal troops to abandon Holland in order to defeat him. Immediately
after doing so, the victorious Spanish regiments, exasperated by their still unpaid
wage arrears, mutinied anew; settling their claims took more than a month and
cost over 500,000 ducats. The Army of Flanders did not resume the siege of
Leiden until May.
Not surprisingly, all this depressed Don Luis de Requesens, who had finally
taken over as governor-general. His first months in office had not been happy:
although Alba had assured him before he left that victory lay just around the
corner, he lied. Middelburg, the only loyal town left in Zealand, surrendered
almost immediately after a long siege; while a fact-finding mission to Holland
revealed that the ‘reconquests’ trumpeted by Alba consisted mostly of undefended
villages.Disillusioned, Requesens warned the king that ‘There would not be
time or money enough in the world to reduce by force the twenty-four towns
which have rebelled in Holland if we are to spend as long in reducing each one of
them as we have taken over similar ones so far.’^ He suggested a radical new
strategy: the systematic inundation of Holland and Zealand.
The opportunity seemed perfect. The drainage mills on the dikes, ceaselessly
keeping the water at bay, served as a constant reminder that most of the areas in
rebellion lay below sea level; and few could forget the catastrophic consequences
of previous inundations.^^ Furthermore, the rebels themselves had broken several
dikes, to blockade the royalist garrison in Middelburg and to impede the siege of
Alkmaar. Leiden began to flood areas around the town in November 1572,
creating a ‘moat’ about 250 metres wide, and over the next fifteen months further
deliberate inundations increased the flooded perimeter to over one kilometre.
When the Spaniards nevertheless persisted in their blockade of the town, the
Dutch broke more dikes and opened the sluices along the rivers south of Leiden
until the surrounding water became deep enough for a fleet of flat-bottomed
barges to sail provisions into the city on 3 October 1574, forcing the Spaniards to
withdraw.
Even before this debacle, Valdes, the frustrated Spanish commander, had
advocated more drastic measures, informing Requesens:
When I first entered Holland with the army, I intercepted a letter written by
the prince of Orange in his own hand {to one of his officials} ... in which he
wrote the following words: ‘I had given orders that you should break the
sluice at Maassluis in order to flood the area, but we have gathered together
136 137
here . . . some learned men, and they find that if these sluices are broken, the
whole countryside will be flooded without it being possible ever to reclaim it.
So it would be better not to break them.’ I thought I should let Your Excellency
know this {Valdes continued} so that you will be aware that if, at any time, you
might wish to flood this country, it is in your power. And since our enemies
have taken the initiative in doing so, if they continue in their obstinate
rebellion they indeed deserve to be flooded out.^^
The suggestion, which bears a striking resemblance to the proposed United States
air strikes against the dams and dikes of the Red River Delta during the Vietnam
War (the ‘Rolling Thunder’ and ‘Linebacker’ campaigns), received the approval of
the high command in Brussels, which began to make preparations to execute the
plan in North Holland, at the time a low-lying peninsula protected from the
North Sea only by a thin strip of sand dunes and popularly known as ‘Waterland’.
First, however, they forwarded it to the king for approval.
To their disgust, Philip - like President Johnson four centuries later - forbade
the operation.
It is very clear {he wrote} that the severity, wickedness and obstinacy of the
rebels has reached the level where no one can doubt that they are worthy of a
harsh and exemplary punishment . . . And {we know that} we can easily flood
Holland by breaking the dikes. But this strategy would give rise to a great
disadvantage: that once broken, the province would be lost and ruined for ever,
to the evident detriment of the neighbouring provinces who would have to
build new dikes of their own ... So that, in effect, it would not be wise to
adopt this strategy, nor must we do so because (apart from the disadvantages
already mentioned, great and manifest as they are) we should also recognize
that it would earn for us a reputation for cruelty which would be better avoided,
especially against our vassals, even though their guilt is notorious and the
punishment justified.
Admittedly, Philip went on to sanction the burning of some rebellious areas by
way of exemplary punishment (even suggesting the locations and the units that
might be most appropriate), but first he wished the rebels to receive one last offer
of clemency and so he drafted and sent two sets of instructions - one for each
eventuality: negotiation or ‘hard war’ — and concluded his letter to Requesens
with an unusual offer; ‘You, holding responsibility for these things, will do what
you see to be most fitting to my service, and to the advancement of what lies in
your hands.It seemed that at last the king had learned that the secret of effective
military command lay in delegating operational decisions to his subordinates, but
yet again the opportunity passed. By the time Philip’s prohibition arrived in
Brussels, Valdes and his lieutenants had already begun to break a few dikes in
North Holland, but almost at once the Spanish troops mutinied once more and
abandoned the province, rather than spend another winter in the field, and so
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1555-77
138
Requesens could not make use of his unusually broad powers/^ When Spanish
forces finally entered Waterland in spring 1575, intending to burn all property
and ‘to kill as many people as we may come across’ (just as the king had ordered),
they found that the rebels had constructed and manned entrenchments that
prevented further progress. The troops therefore withdrew.
Philip had rejected on both moral and political grounds a military solution that
might have ended the Dutch Revolt in a matter of weeks. Not surprisingly,
however, Spanish statesmen from time to time reconsidered the idea of ending the
revolt by ‘flooding ’em back to the stone age’. Most notably, in 1602 one member
of the Spanish council of State explicitly recalled the ‘alternative’ of 1574, while
another claimed that Philip had then believed that opening the sea dikes would
have terminated the revolt relatively swiftly. The new king, Philip III, found their
arguments convincing and ordered the strategy to be implemented - but fortunately
for the Dutch, this time no Spanish troops managed to enter Holland or
Zealand.
Another alternative strategy for ending the rebellion to which Philip II devoted
more sustained attention involved creating a royal fleet in the North Sea. As the
hostile French agent Mondoucet noted at the end of 1572, even if Alba managed
to take Haarlem and the other inland towns of Holland, the prince of Orange still
possessed a powerful fleet and several ports, by means of which he could keep his
rebellion alive. Almost everyone seemed to recognize from the outset that the
successful conclusion of the war required Spain to achieve naval mastery — indeed
one of Philip’s officials predicted unhelpfully (if correctly) that the Dutch Revolt
could last fifty years unless Spain gained command of the seas - but less agreement
existed on how to attain it.^^ Clearly the balance of naval power could not be
redressed in the king’s favour from local resources alone. From the outset, royalist
operations in Holland and Zealand had been severely hampered by the lack of
warships and munitions: the Sea Beggars captured the naval Arsenal at Veere -
full of bronze and iron guns, powder and shot - in April 1572; fourteen ships just
equipped for service at Enkhuizen in May; and eight more warships (with twentyseven
naval guns) at Zierikzee in August.These gains, plus the extensive
network of rivers, lakes and canals, allowed the rebels to move their forces around
at will - both to overwhelm isolated royalist detachments and to send aid to towns
that seemed ready to declare for them. Count Bossu, for one, realized that the
royalists faced two distinct naval problems: they needed more warships to defend
all possible targets in the threatened provinces; and to support these ships, they
needed to control one or more suitable harbour? where the vessels could shelter,
refit and take on new provisions. In this respect, the loss of most major ports in
Holland and Zealand proved critical because those two provinces possessed the
only suitable deep-water facilities in the entire Netherlands: those of Flanders and
Brabant either lay too far from the sea or held too little water to serve as adequate
naval bases. ‘If we do not recover Holland soon’, Bossu grimly (and accurately)
warned, ‘we shall be hunted from the sea’.^° Furthermore, although the small royal
fleet in the Low Countries managed to score some successes in the early months of
The Formation of Grand Strategy 139
the war, each engagement with the rebels caused losses that could not be replaced
and damage that could not be made good. Eventually not enough fighting ships
remained to secure victory: one royal squadron met with defeat on the Zuider Zee
in October 1573 and two more in the attempts to relieve Middelburg in January
and February 1574. A further unsuccessful engagement in the Scheldt estuary the
following May more or less eliminated the king’s navy in the Netherlands.
Now the king could only wrest command of the sea from the Dutch by the
dispatch of a powerful naval squadron from Spain. Philip had long appreciated the
value of a navy to defend his southern possessions: in the Mediterranean, thanks
to a massive programme of construction, he managed to triple the size of his fleet
from 55 to 155 galleys. At the same time, he issued a stream of orders designed
to increase the quantity and improve the quality of ships laid down in the yards
of Cantabria, whether for service northwards to Flanders, or westwards to
America. But until the 1580s this shipbuilding programme did not include the
construction of warships capable of operating effectively in the North Sea.®^
Accordingly, when Alba began to plead for the dispatch of fighting ships from
Spain in order to defeat the rebels, he and the king thought at first in terms of
galleys. However, an itinerary for the galleys to sail to Flanders prepared by the
chief pilot of Spain turned out to be impractical: the shortest route was almost
1,000 kilometres, and the safest 1,300. Philip warned Alba to expect little help
from this quarter.^^
Instead, the king began to plan the dispatch of Spanish sailing warships to
regain command of the North Sea. Since he lacked a High Seas fleet, the necessary
vessels would have to be commandeered from the merchant marine and supplied
with ordnance, munitions and soldiers by the crown. This technique had worked
well enough in 1565-66, when the king commissioned his most experienced
Atlantic commander, Pedro Menendez de Aviles, to destroy all French bases in
Florida and reassert Spanish control in the western Atlantic; but whereas twentyfive
ships had sufficed to recover Florida, such a small force would make little
impression on the Dutch.®"^ So in February 1574 the king signed orders to create
a fleet based on Santander both to clear ‘the Channel Cof pirates} and to recapture
some ports in the Netherlands occupied by the rebels’; he also ordered the
embargo of 224 ships in the ports of Spain, from which Menendez would choose
his task force, and the recruiting of 11,000 soldiers.
Naturally this represented an impossible goal for a single campaigning season
and provides another example of Philip’s lack of strategic sense. To locate and load
the artillery and other equipment required to turn a merchantman into a fighting
ship took months and, for such a huge undertaking (as Menendez and several of
Philip’s councillors pointed out), ‘it could take years’. Moreover, once in northern
waters, such a large fleet would need a safe harbour in which to shelter in case of
need, and Philip no longer controlled one.^*^ Gradually Menendez came to realize
this and in August suggested to the king that instead of going to the Netherlands
he should merely cruise between Brittany and the Scilly isles, capturing and
punishing all the ‘pirates’ he encountered; if storms threatened, the fleet could
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1353-77
140 The Formation of Grand Strategy
take refuge either in the Scillies or in some Irish port, and from that base a
squadron could be sent directly to the Netherlands the following spring. The king
immediately agreed to this ingenious plan — in effect a blockade of the Channel
approaches — but he did not do so solely because the fleet as yet lacked the strength
to gain control of the North Sea.^^ Earlier in the summer the Turks had sent a
large fleet west which laid siege to the Spanish garrisons at La Goletta and Tunis;
Philip knew that, should they fall, the defence of the Mediterranean might
become more urgent than the recovery of Holland and Zealand. He therefore
ordered the fleet to stay close to Spain in case it might be needed to keep the Turks
at bay. In the end it made no difference because, even as he led his fleet out of
Santander to patrol the Channel in September, an epidemic carried off Menendez
and many of his men. The king cancelled the entire expedition.He had squandered
over 500,000 ducats on it.^^
This fiasco, coupled with the simultaneous loss of Tunis and La Goletta along
with all their defenders and the failure of the siege of Leiden, led the king and his
advisers to consider yet another alternative strategy: a negotiated settlement with
the Dutch. Initially Philip had taken a hard line in the Netherlands for two
reasons: ‘for the conservation of religion, and to preserve the obedience of the
[king’s} vassals there in light of the example of France, where the rebels were
treated with so much circumspection, pardoning them and even honouring
them’.^'^ The duke of Alba, at least, had no intention of making this mistake. ‘Let
this rebel [Orange} lay down his arms and beg for mercy, and then we can
see what should be done,’ he advised the king on one occasion; and on another:
‘These troubles must be ended by force of arms, without any use of pardon,
mildness, negotiations or talks: that will be the right time for clemency’.^^ As the
situation deteriorated, however, the king wavered in his resolve. His decision in
1573 to recall Alba stemmed primarily from his conviction that force must
henceforth be tempered by concessions in order to save the Netherlands
for God and its sovereign, and in July of that year he tried to implement a more
conciliatory policy even while the duke remained in charge. With his forces fully
committed in the Mediterranean, the king told Alba that ending the war in the
Netherlands as soon as possible and on almost any terms had now become his
highest priority:
[Although I rejoice at all your victories} it is essential that we bring aflfairs to
a conclusion, as much to avoid the loss and destruction of those provinces as
because of the impossible situation we face for money. So I request and require
you most earnestly to arrange things so that we may gain days, hours and even
moments in what must be done to secure [a peace}.
Yet again, this insistence on an immediate change of policy 1,000 kilometres
away proved totally unrealistic. The courier carrying this crucial dispatch only
arrived in the Netherlands six weeks later — long after the fall of Haarlem, which
would have afforded an admirable opportunity for clemency — and by then the
Spanish army had begun to besiege Alkmaar. Its commander still failed to see the
need for compromise; indeed he felt that he had been far too lenient in the past.
‘If Alkmaar is taken by force, I am determined not to leave a human being alive,
but rather to slit all their throats. Since the example of Haarlem, where all the
burgers (except for forty or so) were pardoned, has not brought any benefit,’ he
told the king, ‘perhaps an example of cruelty will bring in the rest of the towns
[in revolt}’. Warming to his theme. Alba continued: ‘I cannot refrain from
beseeching Your Majesty to disabuse yourself of the notion that anything will ever
be accomplished in these provinces by the use of clemency. Things have reached
the point where many Netherlanders who until now have been begging for
clemency now admit their mistake and believe that every living soul in Alkmaar
should have their throats cut.’^^
The duke’s forceful statements highlighted the fact that the king’s policies once
again stood at variance with his principles. Under pressure from Ruy Gomez and
the moderates, Philip had been on the point of issuing a ‘General Pardon’ for his
rebels (albeit with numerous exceptions), but upon reading Alba’s objections to
clemency (which arrived after Ruy Gomez’s death) he decided to hold it back for
a while. He nevertheless remained perplexed by the confusing advice received
from the various factions at his Court and in the Netherlands. In one of the
tortuous holograph letters in which he sought to persuade Requesens to take over
from Alba, the king summarized the arguments he had heard. On one side stood
the duke and his supporters, who saw the revolt as primarily religious and
therefore impossible to end by compromise, since the king’s conscience could not
allow him to grant toleration. On the other side were the loyal Netherlanders and
their supporters at Court who ‘say that very few acted for reasons of religion, but
rather through the ill treatment they have received in everything . . . and that the
panacea is mildness, good treatment and a general pardon’. But who was right?
The king confessed that:
With so many different opinions I have found myself in a quandary, and since
I do not know the truth of what is happening there I do not know which
remedy is appropriate or whom to believe; so it seems to me safest to believe
neither the one group nor the other, because I think they have [both} gone to
extremes. I believe it would be best to take the middle ground, although with
complete dissimulation.
To cover all eventualities the king decided to prepare two contradictory Instructions
for Requesens: ‘those in Spanish seem to lean somewhat in one direction,
while those in French very clearly go in the other’. He apologized for the
difficulties this might cause, but concluded: ‘I did not want to burst my brains
emending them except for small things because your real instructions will be
what you see and understand when you get there’. He did, however, expressly
forbid Requesens to make religious concessions or offer to pardon the rebel
leaders.^^
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1555—77 t.41
By the time Requesens finally arrived in Brussels, informal negotiations with
the enemy had already begun. Initially the local commanders on each side in
South Holland exchanged letters merely about ransoms and the future treatment
of prisoners (for up to that point those captured by both sides had been executed
out of hand); before long, however, William of Orange took the opportunity to
state his terms for a settlement. First, he insisted, there must be toleration for all
Calvinists; second, all goods confiscated from the rebels must be restored; third,
constitutional government must be reinstated and all foreign troops withdrawn;
fourth and finally, the agreement must be guaranteed by a foreign ruler (such as
the emperor or the king of France). This unauthorized exchange of views with
the rebel leader horrified the duke of Alba and he swiftly disavowed it; but, almost
simultaneously, he decided to follow up reports that some individual rebel towns
might be willing to make separate terms.^*^
The king’s advisers in Madrid duly discussed these initiatives and concluded
that, although ‘without doubt if Your Majesty had the money to pacify matters
there by force, it would be better’, since sufficient funds could not be found,
certain concessions would clearly be needed. The council of State therefore recommended
that the General Pardon should be issued after all, exempting only
Orange and his principal lieutenants, and that the unpopular new taxes and legal
tribunals introduced by Alba should be discontinued. The king duly authorized
these concessions. He also agreed that the talks with individual rebel towns
should continue. Accordingly in the spring and summer of 1574, although
various efforts to betray strongholds to the Spaniards failed, a succession of secret
envoys shuttled between Brussels and Holland in order to ascertain the terms on
which the Dutch might be willing to discuss an end to hostilities and a return to
Philip’s obedience.^^ Requesens hectored the king to authorize substantial concessions
(causing Philip to protest at one point that ‘Flanders cannot be pacified in
two days as he seems to think’) and eventually formal talks with Orange and his
supporters opened at the town of Breda in March 1575, just three years after the
revolt began.
After four months the two sides reached agreement on almost all their political
differences, but this did not suffice. Requesens concluded that Alba had been
right all along: religion did indeed constitute the real cause of the continuing
resistance of the rebels. If we were talking about a peace that could be settled by
transferring four towns or four kingdoms’, he wrote sadly in July 1575, something
could surely be arranged; ‘but it all depends on religion, which has caused
this war’. And so, he gloomily predicted, ‘I have no hope whatever for a settlement
[since} ... we cannot meet any of the [rebels’} demands on the religious question’.
Spain still refused to tolerate Protestantism in a reconciled Netherlands
state, and the Dutch rebels would not recognize the king’s authority again
without it. Although victory had become militarily impossible, to Philip and his
principal advisers a negotiated settlement remained ideologically unacceptable.
The conference at Breda in fact only served to strengthen the rebels by increasing
1^2 The formation of Grand Strategy 143
their internal cohesion as they negotiated collectively, and by creating a new
platform from which they could justify their cause.
The history of Spain’s efforts to suppress the Dutch Revolt between 1572 and
1575 thus offers partial support for Paul Kennedy’s ‘strategic overstretch’ explanation
of Spain’s failure to secure European mastery. The bastioned defences of the
key rebel strongholds, whether prepared in advance by the Habsburgs’ own
engineers (as at Mons) or improvised in haste by the Dutch (as at Alkmaar), indeed
proved crucial in thwarting Spain’s chosen strategy of deploying overwhelming
force in order to secure a rapid victory. Once the reconquest became ensnared by
the Military Revolution, it became impossible for Philip to support an army on
this scale for long, especially when he remained heavily committed to the defence
of the Mediterranean as well. As he told his secretary in July 1574: ‘[The fate of
the Netherlands} is very much at risk, with so many troops and no money to pay
them, and so we must send them some financial help without delay . . . Unless
God performs a miracle, our affairs there cannot be improved without money.’
Indeed, he sighed some days later, ‘I think the Netherlands will be lost for lack of
money, as I have always feared ... We are running out of everything so fast that
words fail me’.^°^ After two years of secret preparation, in September 1575 the
Castilian treasury ordered the suspension of all payments. Seen from the Netherlands,
this marked the end of the road. As Requesens wrote despairingly to his
brother:
The decree of bankruptcy has dealt such a great blow to the Exchange here
[in Antwerp} that no one in it has any credit... I cannot find a single penny,
nor can I see how the king could send money here, even if he had it in
abundance. Short of a miracle, the whole military machine will fall in ruins
so rapidly that it is highly probable that I shall not have time to tell you
about it.^”^
No miracle occurred, however, and Requesens’s pessimism proved prophetic: in
March 1576 he himself died of plague and in July the unpaid Spanish field army
mutinied and abandoned Holland. In September the States of the loyal provinces,
on their own initiative, began talks with the rebels of Holland and Zealand for a
negotiated settlement to the civil war.^°‘^
Yet this neat model of military and economic determinism, although accurate
as far as it goes, remains insufficient on three counts. First, it overlooks the facts
that, despite his egregious errors in and after 1559, Philip managed to regain
complete control in 1566—68; and that, despite provoking an even more serious
rebellion in spring 1572, the royalists came within a hair’s breadth of ending it by
the end of the year. Second, it leaves no room for the numerous non-economic
factors that thwarted the king’s chosen strategy: his repeated failure to return to
the Netherlands between 1560 and 1571 in order to supervise the creation of his
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1333—77
144
‘new world’ in person; Don Fadrique’s rash insistence on unconditional surrender
in the case of Haarlem at the end of 1572; and Alba’s decision to besiege Alkmaar
rather than (say) Delft in 1573. Finally, it does not explain the relative neglect of
alternative strategies; Orange’s assassination; systematic inundation; gaining
naval mastery in the North Sea; and, above all, negotiating a settlement in at least
one of Spain’s major wars.
Great and small, all of these constituted political - not economic or military -
failures. All of them, moreover, arose from two ‘systemic’ weaknesses in Philip’s
system of government. On the one hand, although the king possessed clear policy
goals, he failed to indicate clearly the ‘boundary conditions’ that would identify
the compromises that would be acceptable (as opposed to those that would not)
when his agents experienced difficulty in executing his policies. Each new crisis,
each new setback, therefore had to be handled de novo, first by his lieutenants in the
field and then by the king himself, wrestling with his papers either alone or with
just one or two advisers. On the other hand, time and again the plans carefully
made in Madrid had become outdated by the time they reached the Netherlands:
distance defeated the decision to offer major concessions in July 1573, to send a
less abrasive governor-general in 1571 ^nirl again in 1573’ send a fleet in
1574. With remarkably few exceptions — during the emergency of spring 1572
and again in October 1574 - Philip refused to confer adequate powers on his
theatre commanders. Perhaps the slow pace of the Low Countries War, in which
each siege took so long that it left time for several exchanges of courier, fatally
encouraged the king to micromanage operations; but examples of the same
tendency abound in other areas - the Mediterranean, the Atlantic, even the
Americas (pp. 70-71 above) - strongly suggesting that the desire to monopolize
power lay in the king’s nature, not in the specific circumstances of the Netherlands.
Taken together, they created a ‘strategic overstretch’ of another kind:
mental and political rather than economic and military.
Only the bankruptcy of 1575 seems to have forced Philip to make harsh
strategic choices, perhaps because it led him to suspect that he had somehow
misread God’s plan. Now, at last, he prepared himself to ‘endure the
unendurable’: in 1576, with his treasury still empty and the Dutch in control of
virtually the entire Netherlands, the king reluctantly decided to purchase peace in
the Netherlands at any price. He worked with ministers who favoured making farreaching
compromises in order to end the war, and his secret Instructions for the
new governor-general, Don John of Austria, conceded that;
The Formation of Grand Strategy
If matters are in such a state that the States-General demand unilateral concessions
before they will recognize your authority, it seems that, safeguarding
religion and my authority as much as may be, since matters have reached these
extremes, given the need to extinguish the fire and to prevent these people from
more desperate action, so that everything is lost, we shall have to concede everything
necessary in order to bring about a conclusion and save what we can.
The ‘Great Bog of Europe’: the Netherlands, 1333—77 145
At first Don John seemed reluctant to obey and after only two months in
the Netherlands threatened to reopen hostilities with the Dutch rebels.
The king allowed him no latitude, however, sending an express letter in
triplicate
to tell you, as I have told you so many times before and as you have heard from
me fin person}, that you must avoid at all costs allowing negotiations to break
down ... I have to charge you, brother, to avoid a breach, and to accommodate
yourself to time and necessity, which are the best counsellors you can have in
such an urgent and difficult matter as this.
Don John duly crumbled and signed an agreement that required all Spanish
troops and officials to leave the Netherlands for Italy, that halted religious
persecution, and that empowered the States-General of the reunited Netherlands
to determine their future religious and political organization.
Meanwhile the king further decided both to disband a large part of the
Mediterranean fleet, leaving it on a purely defensive footing, and to send an envoy
to Istanbul with powers to conclude an immediate armistice with the Turks so
that, for the first (and only) time in his reign, his entire monarchy was at peace.
A few months later, however, the situation changed again. In July 1577 Don John
unilaterally broke with the Dutch and directly ordered the Spanish veterans to
return from Italy to the Netherlands in order to defend him, claiming that such
was the king’s wish. When the news reached Spain, Philip immediately fired off
orders to Italy forbidding his ministers to comply, and the troops therefore
remained at their posts. Don John received another long rebuke: ‘In no way does
it suit to declare open war on the Netherlands provinces without my express
communication and order’, the king thundered.
Instead you must follow the path that has been indicated. If matters reach such
extremes, you must advise me of the fact, so that I can decide what seems best,
according to the situation in which my other realms find themselves, and the
resources and funds that I have to hand, in order to put such a resolution into
effect; for without that, anything we do would be in vain.^°^
A few days later, however, perhaps reassured by peace in the Mediterranean
and the providential arrival of a rich treasure fleet from America, Philip felt
able to return to his underlying principles and ordered the tercios back. Civil
war returned to the Low Countries and lasted until 1609, long after Philip’s
death; his grandson finally signed a peace which recognized the political and
religious independence of the seven northern provinces of the Netherlands in
1648.
By that time Owen Feltham had no doubt that Spain’s inability to regain
control of the entire Netherlands had caused its downfall as a Great Power. The
Dutch, Feltham wrote.
The Formation of Grand Strategy
Are the Israelites passing through the Red Sea . . . They have strugled long
with Spain’s Pharaoh, and they have at length inforced him to let them go.
They are a Gideon’s army upon the march again. They are the Indian rat,
knawing the bowels of the Spanish crocodile, to which they got when he gap’d
to swallow them. They are a serpent wreathed about the legs of that elephant.
They are the little sword-fish pricking the bellies of the whale. They are the
wane of that empire which increas’d in (the time of} Isabella and in (the time
of} Charles the fifth was at full. They are a glass wherein kings may see that
though they be sovraigns over lives and goods, yet when they usurpe upon
God’s part, and will be kings over conscience too, they are somtimes punisht
with a loss of that which lawfully is their own. That religion too fiercely urg’d
is to stretch a string till it not onely jars, but cracks; and in the breaking, whips
(perhaps) the streiner’s eye out.^“^
He might have added that the same combination of distance, religious intransigence
and a failure to establish boundary conditions also doomed Philip IPs
attempts to triumph over his other major enemy in north-west Europe: Elizabeth
Tudor.
146
5 The ‘British Problem^
The religious upheavals of the sixteenth century transformed international relations
in western Europe in three important ways. First they created, at the heart
of almost every state, a nucleus of zealots prepared to place the advancement of
their religion above obedience to their rulers. Elizabeth I of England survived over
twenty plots against her life; in France Henry IV succumbed in 1610 to the knife
of his twentieth would-be assassin and religious opponents also murdered his
predecessor Henry III (1589) as well as several faction leaders (Anthony of Navarre
and Henry of Guise in 1563, Gaspard de Coligny and many other Protestant
chiefs in 1572). Second, the growing ideological differences seriously complicated
- in the sixteenth century as in the twentieth — regular diplomatic intercourse
between parties divided by strongly held beliefs: Elizabeth expelled two
Spanish ambassadors for supporting plots against her life hatched by Catholic
opponents and recalled her last resident ambassador from Spain in 1568 when
Philip refused to allow him to conduct Protestant worship in his own embassy.
Finally, the Reformation disrupted the established pattern of international alliances.
In the fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries Castile and the Netherlands
had been the traditional allies of England, while France sided with Scotland, but
the breach with Rome first by England and then by Scotland effected a diplomatic
revolution. As Lord Bprghley, Elizabeth’s chief minister, observed in 1589: ‘The
state of the world is marvellously changed, when we true Englishmen have cause
for our own quietness to wish good success to a king of France and a king of
Scots.
This critical transition began in 1553—54 with the successful negotiations of
Charles V to marry his son and heir, Philip, to Queen Mary Tudor of England.
This diplomatic and dynastic coup not only created a powerful new Habsburg
constellation in north-west Europe but also completed the encirclement of France:
England and the Netherlands to the north; Franche-Comte and the empire to the
east; Lombardy, Sardinia and Spain to the south.^ In 1557 England followed
Philip’s lead and declared war on France and Scotland. In November 1558,
however, Mary died childless and the English crown passed to her half-sister
Elizabeth, who soon showed unmistakable signs of wishing to turn England into
147
148
a Protestant state again. Many ministers urged Philip, whose title ‘king of
England’ lapsed with his wife’s death, to recover his position - both to maintain
the Catholic faith there and to keep England within the Habsburg orbit, for
without it ‘the Low Countries, and in consequence Italy and the Americas, would
stand in great danger of being lost’.^ For a moment Elizabeth herself offered a
solution, indicating just after her accession that she might view favourably an
offer of marriage from Philip. Although his advisers in Spain rejected this initiative
out of hand ‘on account of her birth and for religious considerations’, the
king — resident in Brussels at this time — decided to test the waters, albeit with
remarkably little enthusiasm. In January 1559, ‘feeling like a condemned man
wondering what is to become of him’, he authorized his trusted ambassador in
London, the count of Feria, to respond positively to Elizabeth — but only ‘to serve
God and to see if this might prevent that lady from making the changes in
religion that she has in mind’ (and only if the terms were better than those agreed
when he married Mary Tudor). ‘Believe me,’ he later confided Feria, ‘if it were not
for God’s sake, I would never do this. Nothing could or would make me do this
except the clear knowledge that it might gain the kingdom [of England] for His
service and faith’. After a few weeks, however, Elizabeth rejected her graceless
suitor and began to implement the ‘changes in religion’ that would make England
Protestant again.^
Philip now faced an awkward dilemma. Eight years of almost continuous war
with France and the Turks, fought on several fronts with armies and navies of
unprecedented size, had exhausted the Spanish Monarchy and the king had
already been forced to reschedule his debts (p. 87 above). Under these circumstances
a major new military undertaking such as an invasion of England to
restore Catholicism, especially while the war with France continued, remained
inadvisable. And yet, unless he acted swiftly, Elizabeth’s new religious settlement
might become entrenched and far more difficult to destroy at a later date. In a
confidential holograph letter to Feria in March 1559 the king gave vent to his
frustration:
This is certainly the most difficult decision I have ever faced in my whole
life . . . and it grieves me to see what is happening over there [in England] and
to be unable to take the steps to stop it that I want, while the steps I can take
seem far milder than such a great evil deserves . . . But at the moment I lack the
resources to do anything.
Later in the letter, the king returned to his point in a more forceful and
calculating way:
The evil that is taking place in that kingdom has caused me the anger and
frustration I have mentioned . . . but I believe we must try to remedy it
without involving me or any of my vassals in a declaration of war until we have
enjoyed the benefits of peace [for a while].^
The Formation of Grand Strategy The ‘British Problem’, lyyS—Sy 149
Even as he wrote these words, however, others endeavoured to engineer a rebellion
in England against Elizabeth. Feria informed the king of a plot to depose the
queen in favour of a Catholic relative and begged for Philip’s support, since ‘No
better opportunity could arise for a prince to gain reputation in the eyes of both
God and the world’. ‘All the water in the Thames would not cleanse the stains
from my conscience,’ Feria added, if the king failed to act. Shortly afterwards,
Henry II of France proposed a joint invasion, to be followed by a partition of
England between the two victors.^
The king referred these two proposals to his leading foreign policy advisers:
Granvelle, Alba and Ruy Gomez. They, too, saw a marvellous chance to restore
Philip’s power in England and advised him both to keep in constant readiness the
fleet that had been assembled to convey him back to Spain and to send money to
Feria for use in case of need. They ruled out, however, any cooperation with France
(on the grounds that the French could not be trusted to adhere to any agreement:
earlier in the century, the councillors recalled, France had reneged on a treaty to
partition Naples) and they advised against any unilateral action by Philip against
Elizabeth. Their greatest fear was that civil war might break out in England
between the Catholics and Protestants, and that one side or the other might
appeal to the French for assistance. To avoid this, they recommended that Philip
should make known to Elizabeth that he would protect her against all comers.^ In
the event, the king tried to leave his options open. He instructed Feria to
arrange to advise me immediately, by all possible channels, of the current state
of affairs, and I shall tell you what you have to do. In case a rebellion occurs so
unexpectedly that you cannot consult me quickly enough, you should make
yourself available as a mediator to pacify them, without declaring support for
either of the parties until you have informed me and received my reply.
Only if the Catholics clearly held the upper hand could Feria provide them with
financial support, albeit even, then ‘secretly and underhand’ while seeming to
‘smile upon the heretics, in order to avoid alarming them and to make sure they
do not seek to call in the French’.
Elizabeth, for her part, fully realized the vulnerability of her position.
Although she had succeeded to the throne peacefully and with considerable support,
she had done so as a Catholic (at least in outward manifestations). Once she
felt able to reveal her Protestant sympathies, many Catholics both at home and
abroad turned their thoughts to the claims of her cousin, the still impeccably
Catholic Mary Stuart, brought up in France almost since birth and recently married
to Francis, heir apparent to the French throne. In April 1559 Francis ratified
the peace of Cateau-Cambresis (which ended hostilities of France and Scotland
against the Habsburgs and England) as ‘king of Scotland, England and Ireland, and
dauphin of France’. Elizabeth therefore played her matrimonial card again: she
indicated that she would consider marrying one of Emperor Ferdinand’s sons,
hoping that this would guarantee Habsburg assistance in case of a French attack.
150 The Formation of Grand Strategy
Plate 22 The Great Seal of Francis II and Mary Stuart. Mary Stuart had succeeded to the
Scottish throne in 1542 when only one week old. Almost immediately her French mother took
her to France, where she grew up at Court. In 1558 she married Francis, heir to the French
throne, and when her cousin Mary Tudor died, the couple claimed to be sovereigns of England
and Ireland (Mary was the granddaughter of Henry VIIFs sister and did not recognize the title of
the Protestant Elizabeth). Even after the peace of Cateau-Cambresis ended the war between
Scotland, France and England in April 1559 the couple retained all their titles and placed them
on their seal: Francis and Mary, by the grace of God rulers of France, Scotland, England and
Ireland.
Three events saved her from this fate. In June a group of Scottish Protestants
entered Edinburgh and forced the regent, Mary of Guise, to flee; in July, Henry
II of France was killed in a tournament; and in August Philip set sail for Spain.
True, immediately after Henry’s death, the new French rulers adopted the unambiguous
style ‘Francis and Mary, sovereigns of France, Scotland, England and
Ireland’ (see Plate 22) and prepared to send an expeditionary force to restore order
in Scotland. True, also, several of Philip’s senior advisers advocated exploiting the
sudden change of regime in France in order to invade England; so did the pope,
who even promised to invest Philip as king of England, so that his conquest would
be legal.^ But Philip declined. As late as 23 June 1559 he declared his intention
of staying in the north ‘at least until next January’, sending a long paper of
explanation to his sister Juana, regent in Spain; and he urgently requested funds
both for his proposed intervention in England and for his continued residence in
the Netherlands ‘because without it everything here will be lost, and my person
too’. He demanded a response ‘by a special courier who will come for no other
purpose’. The reply, when it eventually arrived, delivered a slap to the royal face:
Juana flatly refused to send any money at all and her advisers found his requests
so unrealistic that (as Philip noted ruefully) ‘they had a good laugh’ at his
expense. The councillors had good cause: the Castilian treasury lay empty, many
areas in the crown of Aragon verged on open insurrection, and Protestant cells had
been discovered in Seville and Valladolid (the administrative capital). Above all,
attempts to conclude a peace with the Turks had failed, raising fears of new
attacks in the western Mediterranean. Spain urgently required her king to return
and take personal control; under the circumstances, Philip’s request for more
money specifically to prolong his absence seemed ridiculous. On the other hand
his Netherlands advisers continued to urge that he stay for at least a few months
more in the north since his departure might precipitate ‘developments that could
do irreparable damage to His Majesty and his successors. It cannot be a good thing
for him to leave the Netherlands with English affairs as they are at present and
relations with France not settled. I am not sure that the needs of Spain are so great
that they exceed ours.’ In the end, it all came down to money. On 24 June, the
day after his urgent letter to Spain, a special financial commission convened by the
king in Brussels advised him to expect no more money from the Netherlands:
instead they argued that funding from abroad - that is, from Spain - would be
essential to put his policies for northern Europe into effect. This seems to have
made up Philip’s mind: later that week he announced his intention to return to
Spain, and in July he left Brussels for the coast. Even news of Henry IPs death
failed to produce a change of heart: he set sail for the land of his birth in August
11
1559-
One cannot really blame Philip for this decision: he had little choice. He could
no longer govern Spain and intervene effectively in the Mediterranean from
Brussels, over i ,000 kilometres away; he lacked the money to do anything useful
in the north; and, as Juana pointed out, the time had come to address directly the
problems created in his southern kingdoms by the relentless demands of war and
by his five-year absence. Philip’s error lay in believing that he could intervene
effectively in the affairs of Britain (or the Netherlands) from Spain: thanks to his
first-hand experience as king of England, Philip came to regard himself as an
expert on the subject. He could not understand, for example, why in 1570 the
pope decided to excommunicate Elizabeth without consulting him first, knowing
that I could give him better information and advice on that kingdom and on its
affairs and people than anyone else’.^^
The same confidence that he possessed an unrivalled comprehension of British
politics also led him to overlook a second important obstacle: the different agenda
of his various lieutenants in Brussels. The ‘sub-imperial policies pursued by its
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y 151
152 The Formation of Grand Strategy
energetic agents abroad — especially by the regents in Brussels, responsible for a
population of three million souls and a complex economy — proved a constant
source of potential tension within the Habsburg Monarchy. Alba, for example,
possessed very firm views on the ‘British question’. He too had spent some time
in England during which, like his master, he had noted both the complexity of
Tudor society and the strength of Protestant feeling; also like his master, he seems
to have concluded that no firm alliance could be maintained with such an unstable
country (and ruler), so that the best policy was to placate Elizabeth so that she
would remain neutral. He therefore opposed any attempt to undermine or
dethrone the queen. Until he left Spain in 1567, any difference of opinion between
the duke and his master had limited significance, because before taking a decision
Philip could consult with others whose opinion on British affairs he also respected
(above all Feria, who had served as his ambassador and married one of Queen
Mary’s attendants, keeping him in touch with more ‘interventionist’ English
Catholic opinion). Once Alba arrived in Brussels, however, the differences became
far more significant. In the first place, the duke’s views received strong endorsement
from his Netherlands ministers, all of whom desired peace with England,
one of the country’s principal trading partners, since on that depended the
prosperity of the seventeen provinces and therefore the stability of the entire
regime. Second, although Philip limited the authority of Margaret of Parma and
sought to do the same with Alba, once a trade war began with England late in
1568 he could not avoid delegating greater powers to the duke. Alba now
possessed not only greater authority when pressing his opinions upon Philip but
also the means to thwart the execution of any ‘interventionist’ initiatives with
which he disagreed.
Inertia rather than policy decided the outcome of the first ‘British crisis’ of the
reign, however. No sooner had Philip left the Netherlands than both England and
France took major steps to secure a favourable solution to the Scottish problem.
The French sent an expeditionary force to support Mary of Guise: it soon regained
Edinburgh and drove the Protestants back beyond the Forth. Elizabeth retaliated
by mobilizing a huge fleet — the largest until 1588 — which sailed to Scotland and
cut off communications with France. To Cardinal Granvelle, Philip’s principal
adviser in the Netherlands, it seemed clear that to secure England ‘we should do
the same as we would to secure Brussels’, but Philip remained unmoved: instead
he concentrated on a combined operation against the North African island of
Djerba. Luckily for him (and Elizabeth) storms dispersed a second French expeditionary
force early in 1560, with heavy losses, and so Francis II called upon his
brother-in-law Philip for assistance. ‘Since we agree that this is all about religion’,
the French king asked that Philip should warn Elizabeth ‘that if she did not
abandon her protection of the Scottish heretics and accept the honest terms offered
her, that he {Philip} would embrace God’s cause and assist and favour the king his
brother [Francis II} with all his strength and means’.The appeal came too late:
Elizabeth had already sent an envoy to ask Philip for assistance should her realm
be attacked by the French, and in March 1560 the king agreed. ‘Given the
153
importance to us, and the danger that would follow to our dominions if she and
her kingdom were lost’, Philip ordered his Spanish veterans in the Netherlands to
stand ready to help Elizabeth in case of French attack. This sealed the fate of the
French — and of the Catholic faith — in Scotland. Far from home, blockaded at
Leith by the Scots on land and by England’s navy at sea, in July Francis’s 4,000
troops capitulated. A representative assembly quickly gathered in Edinburgh and
introduced a Reformed church order.Elizabeth had established her independence
with little help from Philip (her enthusiasm for a Habsburg marriage cooled
rapidly), and two subsequent events soon reinforced it. In December 1560 the
death of Francis II left the French throne to his ten-year-old brother Charles IX
and thus temporarily removed the threat of further French intervention across
the Channel, and the next month all Spanish troops in the Netherlands sailed
home in order to take the place of the veterans lost in the ill-fated Djerba
expedition.
Thanks to his decision to concentrate on Spain and the Mediterranean, Philip
had lost his first and best chance to tame Tudor England and for the next few
years, although Elizabeth remained vulnerable, the king neglected English (as
well as Netherlands) affairs while he fought the Turks. A letter to his ambassador
in London in 1562 typified the prevailing attitude. After acknowledging receipt
of numerous dispatches, and asking for the flow of information to continue, he
announced:
If your letters have not been answered and the present does not deal with them
as you desire, it is from no want of will on our part but because we have not yet
been able to come to a resolution as to the steps to be taken to remedy the evils,
which must be attacked at their roots . . . [They} must be deeply considered,
jointly with the state of our own affairs. As soon as I arrive at a decision I will
send full particulars.^*
Philip seems not to have realized that his best chance of keeping Elizabeth
dependent on him would be to make things harder for her - for example by
covertly supporting her Catholic opponents in England and Ireland. Instead he
did everything possible to protect her. In 1562, the leaders of the French Protestants
(normally known as Huguenots) attempted to seize control of the person of
Charles IX and, having failed, began an armed struggle to secure religious and
political concessions that opened a quarter-century of civil war. Elizabeth rashly
provided immediate assistance to the Huguenots, sending an expeditionary force
to seize the port of Le Havre and thus rekindling the hostility of the French
government towards her. Nevertheless Alba warned Philip that, since he lacked
the resources for an invasion (thanks to the continuing Mediterranean crisis), he
could not take advantage of Elizabeth’s weakness; instead he should merely offer
to mediate between England and France. To seek the queen’s deposition made
no sense. Alba argued, because it would only benefit Mary Stuart - now back in
Scotland - who was at this stage even less acceptable to Spain. Mary’s Catholic
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y
154 The Formation of Grand Strategy
credentials had become open to question. Although she subsequently played the
role of Counter-Reformation martyr to perfection, it was a late development: in
the 1560s almost all her Scottish ministers were Protestants and she eventually
granted official recognition to the Reformed religion and married one of her
Protestant subjects (the earl of Bothwell) according to the Reformed rite. Mary
nevertheless remained a French princess: she wrote almost all her letters in French
and in her will of 1566 all of the first seven (and ten of the first twelve)
beneficiaries were her French relatives. Small wonder that Alba saw no advantage
in toppling the unreliable but isolated Tudor queen simply to turn England
into a French satellite under Mary Stuart. Philip therefore continued to protect
Elizabeth without seeking anything in return. When in 1563 the council of
Trent, ‘at the instance or insistence of some English bishops and other Catholics’,
began to ‘discuss the deposition of the queen of England’ Philip ordered it to stop
‘because it could cause very grave inconveniences, and awaken new feelings, and
above all because it would be done at a time and season in which it would bear no
fruit’. Even when a trade war broke out between England and the Netherlands
later that year, Philip refused to allow it to spread to Spain; and when in 1565
Mary wrote to him for the first time, asking for aid against common enemies
of the Roman church, the king offered her assistance only in Scotland.^” In
1567, however, a group of Scottish nobles rebelled against Mary and imprisoned
her. At the same time. Alba and his Spanish troops left Italy for Brussels to
restore order, while the king announced his intention of sailing back to the
Netherlands himself and began to assemble a fleet at Santander to transport
him.
In the event Philip remained in Spain but his interest in the British question
began to revive. In February 1568, for example, he wrote to ask his ambassador in
London, Guzman de Silva, if ‘there is any hope of the queen some day coming to
her senses and recognizing her error [i.e. her adherence to Protestantism], and also
whether, in effect, there are any persons about her or in her council who may be
able to lead her to this with credit and dignity’; he then added wearily, ‘so far as
we can judge her by her words and actions, she seems so wedded to heresy that it
will be difficult for her to free herself from it; but if I could in any way profitably
help her to this end I would do so with all my heart’.^^ The letter offered no hint
of aggressive intent. At just this moment, however, an unfortunate diplomatic
incident concerning Elizabeth’s representative in Madrid set in train a major
change of policy. Dr John Man, a Protestant cleric, had served the Tudors in
minor diplomatic and administrative posts for over thirty years when in 1566
Elizabeth appointed him to serve as her ambassador in Spain. Although Man
could speak Italian, French and Latin, as the only Protestant ambassador (indeed
the only ‘legal’ Protestant) in Madrid he proved unable to navigate a safe course
among his embittered Catholic compatriots at the Spanish Court. By the summer
of 1567 his dispatches recorded the hostility of the count of Feria, Philip’s former
envoy to London and now (in Alba’s absence) his principal adviser on English
affairs, as well as ‘the professed patron’ to all the English Catholic refugees in
Spain. Before long, some of those exiles testified that Man had made invidious
remarks about the Catholic faith and, one night at dinner, had insulted the pope
(whom he called a ‘canting little monk’). Perhaps in retaliation, Man’s household
received orders from the king to cease Protestant worship in the embassy and
attend Catholic services instead. This infringed diplomatic convention (Catholic
embassies in London always retained the right to celebrate Mass, and Guzman de
Silva was himself a priest), but Philip persisted and in March 1568 refused to
grant Man further audiences and exiled him from Court until he received permission
to go home. The king virtuously informed the pope that the ambassador’s
continued presence might cause offence to God ‘whose service, and the observation
of whose holy faith, I place far ahead of my own affairs and actions and above
everything in this life, even my own’.^^
Philip had picked an unfortunate moment for this gratuitous confessional
gesture: two weeks after news of Man’s disgrace reached London, Elizabeth
learned that Mary Stuart, having escaped from prison and taken part in an
unsuccessful bid to regain power in Scotland, had sought refuge in England. Her
agents immediately placed the Scottish queen in custody and soon arranged a
trial at which her Scottish enemies presented evidence that she had murdered her
second husband, thus apparently neutralizing (at least for a time) the threat that
Elizabeth’s enemies might seek to place her on the English throne. At the same
time, another civil war broke out in France, which for the next two years again
eliminated the risk of French intervention in British affairs.
Even more unwisely, Philip now replaced his experienced and urbane
ambassador in London, Guzman de Silva, with the fiery and inexperienced Don
Guerau de Spes. Admittedly Philip urged his new envoy to steer clear of Mary and
in September 1568, having received an urgent plea for help from the Scottish
queen, referred the matter to the moderate Alba: ‘I have refrained from taking any
decision or answering her autograph letter, of which I enclose a copy, until you
tell me what you think of her business and in what way, and to what extent, I
should assist her . Spes, however, proved unable to resist the opportunity to plot:
he worked indefatigably to win Mary’s confidence and to put her in touch with
dissident English Catholics, whose desire to overthrow Elizabeth he also encouraged;
and with equal energy he strove to exaggerate and exploit any English slight
or action that seemed to prejudice Spanish interests. In retrospect, it seemed to at
least one diplomat that amicable relations with Elizabeth could have been preserved
if only Guzman had remained at his post.^^
The cold war with England began over relatively minor issues. The duke of
Alba’s successful campaign to defeat William of Orange in 1568 (p. 122 above)
cost a great deal of money, and most of it came from Spain, transferred by letters
of exchange issued by bankers in Madrid and payable in Antwerp; however, with
millions of ducats changing hands, most bankers needed to transfer some part of
the money for their loans in specie. In November 1568 French pirates chased five
ships carrying one such instalment of cash being shipped by some of the crown’s
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y 155
156 The Formation of Grand Strategy
Genoese bankers from Spain to their Netherlands agents, and forced them to seek
refuge in English ports. Spes, in London, asked Elizabeth to protect the precious
cargo, either by providing a naval escort direct to Antwerp or else by permitting
it to be transported overland to Dover; the queen agreed and, since the pirates
continued to threaten, most of the bullion was brought ashore. But there it stayed.
No sooner had the treasure ships taken refuge in England than news arrived that
a trading fleet under the command of John Hawkins of Plymouth had been set
upon and largely destroyed by a larger Spanish force at San Juan de Ulua in the
Caribbean. Spain claimed a monopoly of trade both with and within the
Americas, and so automatically regarded people of all other nations as pirates (in
1565—66 French colonies in Florida had been destroyed, and all survivors either
executed or imprisoned: see p. 14); Elizabeth, however, could not agree. Instead,
although she solemnly promised Guzman that she would do everything in her
power to prevent Hawkins from sailing, she formally addressed him as ‘General’
of the fleet and even loaned him two warships from her navy by way of an
investment.Elizabeth’s Court, just like Philip’s, contained several factions with
different policy aims, and some of the queen’s advisers favoured a more aggressively
Protestant policy — England’s intervention in Scotland in 1560 and in
France in 1562 had been their doing. Now they favoured confiscating the bullion
aboard the Spanish ships in order to hamper Alba’s campaign against their coreligionists
in the Netherlands and news of the attack on Hawkins (in which the
queen and several of her councillors had invested) provided the pretext of retaliation
for doing so. Nevertheless, these incidents could easily have been resolved:
on the one hand, the money (which represented only a fraction of Alba’s total
budget) did not belong to Spain but to its bankers; on the other, the queen would
have to explain why her warships had accompanied Hawkins to the Caribbean
despite her express assurances to the contrary. Almost single-handed, however,
Spes turned a crisis into a war. In December he asserted (wrongly) that Elizabeth
had confiscated the treasure and urged Alba to embargo all English property in
the Netherlands in retaliation; he also asked the king to do the same in Spain.
Both swiftly obliged and, when she heard of it, the queen reciprocated; she also
placed Spes under house arrest.
Direct intercourse between England and Spain now virtually ceased. Elizabeth
had eventually recalled Dr Man but had not replaced him, so she lacked a voice at
Philip’s Court to explain her intentions; Spes remained in detention and almost
incommunicado for six months.Philip now took a decision that exacerbated the
difficulties created by distance: in the absence of his own diplomatic links, he
resolved to involve the duke of Alba in Brussels, and to a lesser extent his
ambassador Don Frances de Alava in Paris, in the formation of policy towards
England. This dramatically increased the length of time required to take and
implement decisions. Moreover, at just this moment, a new problem arose to
distract the king from dealing with the crisis in the north: the Moriscos of
Granada rebelled at Christmas 1568 and efforts to subdue them tied down a large
army and consumed valuable resources for almost two years.
157 The ‘British Problem’, lyyg-Sy
Nevertheless, early in 1569 Philip asked Alava to ascertain ‘if by chance that
queen wishes to go further with her madness {locuroY and to assure Mary Stuart
that, as long as she remained a staunch Catholic, ‘I will treat her as a true sister
just as if we were children of the same mother, and as such I will help and assist
her as much as lies in my power’. He began to consider - for the first time in ten
years - ways to restore Catholic worship in England by force ‘since it appears to
me that, after my special obligation to maintain my own states in our holy faith,
I am bound to make every effort in order to restore and preserve it in England as
in former times’. The arrival of news in March 1569 that Elizabeth had also
confiscated Portuguese shipping, sent assistance to the French Protestants, and
opened negotiations with some German princes for the defence of the Reformed
religion encouraged the king in such thoughts ‘because if she means to break
simultaneously with me and with France . . . clearly God must be allowing it on
account of her sms and unfaithfulness, so that she will be lost’. Meanwhile Don
Guerau de Spes smuggled out of his captivity a grandiose plan to topple Elizabeth
and replace her with Mary Stuart, a project for which he coined the term ‘the
Enterprise of England’.
Alba exploited his position as Philip’s security adviser for British affairs in
order to create his own diplomatic links with England. Early in 1569 he sent over
Christophe d’Assonleville, a Netherlands minister who had already undertaken
several missions to London, in order to ascertain the queen’s true intentions and
to do what he could to restore harmonious relations. D’Assonleville’s information,
and the contacts he established, impressed the king and for a time he virtually
delegated the British problem’ to Alba ‘since you are on the spot’. Little did
he realize that the duke never saw the point of replacing Elizabeth Tudor with
Mary Stuart and therefore strove first to delay and then to sabotage all the king’s
plans to achieve this. This fundamental policy difference between Brussels and
Madrid was perhaps Elizabeth’s greatest asset during the series of crises that lay
ahead.
Long before d’Assonleville returned to Brussels, Alba warned the king that
open war with England would be a mistake: Orange’s recent invasion had
exhausted the Netherlands so that his government lacked ‘the ships and many
other things necessary for a fresh war’, and in any case he considered that the
success of the Huguenot rebels in France made it imperative to use any spare
resources to help Charles IX (a major expeditionary force left the Netherlands to
fight m France early in 1569). The duke therefore suggested that Philip should
write an emollient letter to Elizabeth, asking why she felt aggrieved and how
good relations could be restored. The king immediately complied.^^ In mid-June
Alba requested powers to follow up this conciliatory approach himself but,
although Philip again obliged, postal delays held his letter of authorization back
for three months; and by the time it arrived other actors had appeared on the
stage. In July 1568 Pope Pius V began to pressure Philip to invade England and
restore Catholicism. Since the king showed little interest, early the following year
Pius presented the duke of Alba with a golden sword (the mark of a warrior for the
158 The Formation of Grand Strategy
faith) and, when this too produced no effect, in November 1569 he sent a letter
that explicitly called on Alba to invade England. By then, although not yet privy
to this papal summons, Philip had also become impatient with Elizabeth and
decided that the time had come ‘to use force where reason has failed’. He drew
encouragement from a rebellion against the queen by the Catholics of northern
England, from the containment of the Morisco revolt, and from the victories of the
French crown over its Protestant rebels (thanks in part to Spain’s military assistance):
taken together, these three developments seemed to create a favourable
situation for a more active policy against England. Furthermore the king considered
that the long delay in securing restitution of the treasure seized by ‘that
woman’ had ‘already begun to affect our prestige’. Late in 1569 Philip informed
Alba that he now favoured sending money to Elizabeth’s northern rebels, encouraging
the Irish Catholics to revolt, and actively supporting Mary Stuart’s claim to
the English crown. Yet again, however, his nerve apparently failed him: conscious
that he wrote far from events, the king concluded his letter with a disclaimer: ‘I
only mention all this so that you will know what we are thinking here and so that,
with your great prudence, and bearing in mind the state of affairs in all areas, you
can consider what would be most appropriate.’^^
The duke’s ‘great prudence’ dictated otherwise. Although sharing Philip’s
frustration at the queen’s refusal to return the confiscated money, or even to
discuss doing so, he resolutely rejected all talk of an open breach. By the time
Philip’s letter arrived he had already poured sarcasm on the pope’s invitation to
invade England:
Such is the zeal and enthusiasm of His Holiness for the service of God, and so
holy is his intention, that we might with justice judge him a heavenly rather
than an earthly being since he places - as it is right to place - all trust in God.
And if our sins did not get in the way of God’s purpose, no one could doubt
that, without considering any human agency, we could have total confidence of
success if we undertook any enterprise of this sort in this way. However, since
worldly affairs form such a large part of us. His Holiness should not marvel if
we might also want to make use of human agencies, so let me tell you what I
think about these in as few words as possible . . .
The duke conceded that ‘It would be easy for His Majesty to conquer England if
the English had only their own forces with which to defend themselves’; but of
course as soon as Philip started to attack England, France and the German princes
would attack Philip’s possessions. Perhaps, the duke continued, France and Spain
could carry out the invasion together and then partition the kingdom; but this too
seemed impractical, because the victors would inevitably squabble over the exact
division (he again cited the failed agreement to partition Naples earlier in the
century). And, in any case. Alba despaired of replacing Elizabeth with another
ruler who would restore Catholicism because it would be hard to find someone
acceptable to both monarchs.^^ Neither sarcasm nor reason deterred the pope.
The ‘British 'Problem’, lyyS—Sy 159
however: in February 1570, without consulting the king, he excommunicated
Elizabeth and absolved her subjects from their obedience, sending copies of his
sentence to the duke of Alba a month later (also without telling the king) along
with orders both to ensure its diffusion in England and to take steps to depose
her.^^
By then Philip’s patience had finally run out. In January 1570 he angrily
reminded Alba that Elizabeth had confiscated not only the treasure of his bankers
but also the goods of his subjects in England; she had welcomed his rebels
(perhaps 30,000 Dutch exiles, mostly Protestants and many of them implicated
in the rebellions of 1566 and 1568, resided in England); she had broken off all
trade; and she had licensed attacks on any ships sailing through the Channel
under Spanish colours. ‘By contrast, the damage which she, her kingdom and
her subjects have received from us is so little that it hardly counts ... so that one
could justly say that she has declared war on us, but we are at peace with her.’ This
unequal situation, the king insisted, could not be allowed to continue: a way of
harming Elizabeth, and thus of bringing her back to peaceful coexistence, had to
be found. His letter also contained, for the first time perhaps in over a decade, a
‘messianic’ element. Philip reiterated his belief that God’s service ‘required’ him
to intervene in order to liberate the Catholic queen of Scots and to restore
Catholicism in England — especially since ‘God has already granted that by my
intervention and my hand that kingdom has previously been restored to the
Catholic church once’. This confidence that God intended him to annex England
rriade Philip ready — perhaps for the first but certainly not the last time in his
reign — to throw caution to the winds. He informed Alba that:.
Even though human prudence suggests many inconveniences and difficulties,
and places before us worldly fears, Christian certitude and the confidence that
we must justly have in the cause of God will remove them, and inspire and
strengthen us to overcome them. Certainly we could not avoid remaining with
great guilt in our soul, and great regret, if because I failed that queen [Mary]
and those Catholics — or, rather, the faith — they suffered and she was lost.
The king briefly reviewed several possible strategies for achieving these ends
(conveniently forgetting that Alba had already scornfully rejected most of them):
an outright invasion by his various forces; a joint invasion with the French; and an
assault on Ireland (representatives of the Irish Catholics had recently arrived in
Spain to secure his support). As usual he solicited Alba’s assessment of these plans,
but this time he also ordered him secretly to provide both the English Catholics
and Mary Stuart with money, arms and munitions, and to send military advisers
to help train her supporters. To facilitate this, Philip enclosed a letter of credit for
300,000 ducats.
Alba remained totally unconvinced by both the spiritual blackmail and the
strategic alternatives and he drew up a detailed rebuttal modelled on his reply to
the pope two months earlier. He even adopted the same tone of heavy sarcasm
i6o The Formation of Grand Strategy
towards Philip’s messianic imperialism: ‘Even though the principal means must
come from God, as Your Majesty very virtuously and piously suggests, nevertheless
since He normally works through the resources He gives to humans, it seems
necessary to examine what human resources would be needed to carry out your
wishes . Alba began by ruling out an immediate invasion, with or without the
French, on the grounds both of cost and of the troubled international situation- he
also pointed out that, although the English Catholics begged for assistance, they
had made it very clear that they did not want deliverance to come by means of a
foreign army; finally he noted that the rising of the northern Catholics had ‘gone
up in smoke’ (as he had always predicted, he added smugly). The duke felt more
positive about sending financial support to Elizabeth’s disaffected subjects in
Ireland (especially since it was something ‘which Your Majesty will be better able
to do than I) as well as in England. He therefore recommended ‘putting in order
and assembling’, in both Spain and the Netherlands, ‘all that we can, both ships
and everything else [for a future invasion} - albeit with some other excuse’ in
order to avoid alarming Elizabeth. Needless to say, he expected all funds for this
purpose to come from Spain.
News that the king of France had begun peace talks with the Huguenots
temporarily cooled the king’s ardour, because an end to the civil wars (which duly
occurred in August) would leave Charles IX free to assist Elizabeth if Spain
attacked. In addition, the king’s tour of Andalusia (to restore confidence in the
wake of the Morisco rebellion) and news of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus
(beginning in July 1570) distracted him from other matters. So Philip sent
mizabeth a message that the traditional Anglo-Spanish friendship would never
be broken through a fault on his part; and he warned Spes to cease his plotting.
He also passed the initiative for coordinating policy back to Alba, telling Spes:
English affairs depend so entirely on those of Flanders and the duke of Alba is
managing them with so much prudence and consideration, to the benefit of my
interests, that you will continue to follow the instructions he may give you’.^^
In September 1570 ninety of the ships assembled by Alba set sail, not for
England but for Spain, carrying Philip’s future wife, his niece Anna of Austria.
Although Elizabeth feared the worst, ordering her entire navy to sea as the
Spanish fleet sailed through the Channel, everything passed off amicably. The
duke’s moderation appeared to have prevailed. Philip nevertheless took two
important steps that kept hostilities going: he declared himself willing to assist
the Irish Catholics, welcoming to his Court Thomas Stukeley, an Anglo-Irish
adventurer who planned to lead an invasion to drive the English from his homeland;
and he approved a suggestion from Spes that he should maintain contact
with both discontented English Catholics and with Mary through a Florentine
banker in London, Roberto Ridolfi, who enjoyed the pope’s confidence and
handled the funds secretly sent from Rome to England. Unfortunately for all of
them, Ridolfi - virtually the only channel through which the various conspirators
m England could communicate - was almost certainly a double-agent who shared
all his information with Elizabeth’s ministers.
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8-8y 161
immediately produced excellent results: early in
1571 Elizabeth sent a special envoy to Spain, urging the king not to support her
rish rebels, asking if she might send a new ambassador and declaring her
willingness to negotiate a settlement of all outstanding issues.” Instead of using
ukeley as a bargaining counter, however, the king decided to support the plan
® of Mary queen of Scots. The full story of the
Ridolfi plot can probably never be told because too many important documents
ave been lost and much of the information that survives was extracted under
orture (or the threat of it). Two distinct - indeed incompatible - plans seem to
ave been under discussion. According to the subsequent testimony of Mary’s
ambassador at the English Court, the Scottish queen would be spirited from her
aildTd b 'fb" u by sympathetic Englishmen
killed at San Juan de Ulua scarcely two years before - would convey’ her to safety
in Spam. There she might marry Philip’s brother, Don John of Austria, while her
young son James would be betrothed to Philip’s daughter Isabella. This Elizabeth
later claimed she could have tolerated fhir Majesty thynketh it no just cause to be
offended with those devises tendyng to hit [Mary’s) liberty’, according to Lord
deTroIiTheT* ' ™dence that Mary had also wished to
Ridolfi left England in March 1571 armed with ’instructions, commissions and
xT/'T contacts and, having visited Alba and the pope, arrived
in Madrid at the end of June and met with the king, Feria and varL other
ministers. In July the council of State debated the English question and unanimously
agreed with Feria s proposal that Elizabeth should be either captured or
Co “ her annual progress through the Home
^unties. Thjs, they anticipated, would unleash a general rising of English
Catholics to be led by the duke of Norfolk, whom Mary would marry. Thl in
turn would seTO as a signal for Alba to send a fleet, reinforced by the flotilla under
duke of Medinacell already standing by at Santander (pp. 130-31 above) to
Norfolk inT" to England to assist
Norfolk Alba would be sent 200,000 ducats specifically to prepare this task
force. One week later, after carefully considering the recommendations and
conversing further with Ridolfi, Philip wrote to apprise Alba of his plan « A
month later, however, the king introduced various significant refinements- first
Feria signed a contract with an agent of John Hawkins promising that Hawkins’s
quadron of sixteen ships, then at Plymouth, would sail to the Netherlands
in September and help ferry over Alba’s troops; second, the king increased the
umberof troops scheduled for *e expedition to 10,000 and designated Harwich
Essex as the landing zone. Third, he authorized Alba ro send money to
&otl^d to help Marys supporters there to create a diversion (although Philip
forbade him to send troops ’in order to avoid open war with the queen of
attfcron Irdand « ' *versionary
162 The Formation of Grand Strategy
These changes made the plan dangerously complicated, yet the entire initiative
still remained with Norfolk and a bunch of assassins; until the latter killed the
queen, and Norfolk brought his supporters out, the squadrons in Plymouth,
Santander and Zealand could not join forces, let alone start embarking Alba’s
troops. Yet, apart from the documents circulated by Ridolfi, no reliable evidence
existed either that Norfolk (a Protestant, not a Catholic!) wished to lead a rising
against Elizabeth or that any significant body of English Catholics would follow
him if he did. As the scale of these problems dawned upon him, Philip changed
his plans yet again. In August 1571 he informed Alba that, even if the plot to kill
Elizabeth did nut take place, or took place and failed, he must still invade.
Realizing that the duke would probably object strenuously to this (as he had to
every other suggestion that force be used against Elizabeth), Philip fell back once
again on messianic imperialism:
No one can deny that this venture involves many and great difficulties, and that
if it goes wrong we will incur considerable inconveniences (as you prudently
pointed out [in a recent letter}) ... In spite of all this I desire to achieve this
enterprise so much, and I have such complete confidence that God our Lord, to
whose service it is dedicated (because I have no personal ambition here), will
guide and direct it, and I hold my charge from God to do this to be so explicit,
that I am extremely determined and resolved to proceed and participate, doing
on my side everything possible in this world to promote and assist it.
Such rhetoric left Alba unmoved. Upon receiving the king’s letter he replied
suavely but firmly that an invasion was at this stage out of the question because,
‘as I have already told Your Majesty, I have not begun to make any preparations’;
furthermore he declared himself unwilling to hazard his troops in England unless
they had guarantees of substantial local support.
The separate agendas of Madrid and Brussels now came into full play. As
governor-general of the Low Countries, Alba earnestly desired a settlement with
Elizabeth, not open war; he therefore even discouraged the king from sending
troops to Ireland before the English Catholics rose, on the grounds that ‘once that
happens, Ireland will fall by itself’. Once more, in desperation, Philip played the
messianic card; on 14 September he again urged Alba to launch the invasion -
even if Norfolk had been arrested, even if Hawkins failed to materialize - because
‘I am so keen to achieve the consummation of this enterprise, I am so attached to
it in my heart, and I am so convinced that God our Saviour must embrace it as His
own cause, that I cannot be dissuaded. Nor can I accept or believe the contrary.’
It was a poor substitute for strategy.
As it happened, unknown to either Philip or Alba, the plan had no chance of
success. Thanks to the information supplied by Ridolfi (whether voluntarily or
not) and by Hawkins (deliberately), by 5 September 1571 Elizabeth’s ministers
possessed enough incriminating evidence to arrest Norfolk and to order Mary to
be more closely confined and prevented from speaking with anyone. A letter
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y 163
written by Lord Burghley late that night and sent to Mary’s keeper ‘hast, post
hast, hast, hast for lif, lif, lif ’ instructed him to ‘have some good speeche to the
queen of Scottes’ both about her plans to escape and flee to Spain, and to ‘provoke
hir to answer’ about ‘hir labors and devices to stir up a new rebellion in this realm
[of England} and to have the king of Spain assist it’. Subsequent interrogation of
the plotters soon provided most of the missing details.'^^ Eventually Elizabeth had
Norfolk executed and subjected Mary to far stricter confinement (she punished
few others because — as Alba had always claimed — virtually no evidence existed
that the Catholics of southern England harboured any wish to change their
allegiance). Ridolfi, wisely, never again crossed the Channel and, after performing
various diplomatic missions for his native Florence, died in 1612. Stukeley went
off to fight at Lepanto and thence made his way to Rome to find other backers for
his Irish schemes.
Thus perished another major opportunity to overthrow Tudor England.
Admittedly the revolt of the Moriscos tied down some of Philip’s resources, but
Alba commanded a victorious army throughout the period, and until Queen
Anna’s voyage to Spain he also possessed a respectable fleet. France remained riven
by civil war, and thus incapable of interfering, until the summer of 1570. Rapid
assistance for the rising of the northern Catholics late in 1569, or modest support
for the Irish Catholics at almost any time, would have placed Elizabeth under
almost intolerable pressure to negotiate an end to the trade war and perhaps to
provide guarantees for good behaviour in the future. However, as in 1559—60,
Philip’s relative isolation in Spain and his imperfect grasp of British affairs -
exacerbated this time by the separate agenda pursued by his trusted lieutenant in
Brussels - prevented him from exploiting Elizabeth’s weaknesses. Instead,
deluded by his religious zeal and by his assurance that he could ‘give better
information and advice on that kingdom and on its affairs and people than anyone
else’ (p. 151 above), he placed all his trust in a grandiose plan that had virtually
no chance of success yet still managed to alienate and discredit his few supporters
at Elizabeth’s Court.
The Ridolfi plot proved a turning-point in Anglo-Spanish relations. In the short
term, Elizabeth made haste to sink her differences with France, signing a defensive
alliance in April 1572 that promised French assistance should England be
attacked by a foreign power; in the long term, she never trusted Spain and her
monarch again. She began to spend heavily to improve the defence of her realm
and she openly welcomed and succoured rebels against Philip, whether in the
Netherlands, in America or (after the Spanish annexation of 1580) in Portugal.
She also tolerated, and sometimes directly supported, privateering activity against
Spanish interests: no fewer than eleven major English expeditions sailed to the
Caribbean between 1572 and 1577, plundering Spanish property and killing or
ransoming Spanish subjects. Finally, in 1577, she provided the resources that
enabled Francis Drake to sail to the East Indies via Cape Horn in order to open
a direct route to the ‘Spice Islands’. Drake’s ‘famous voyage’, which turned into a
164 The Formation of Grand Strategy
circumnavigation of the globe, lasted three years and caused extensive damage to
Spanish goods and ships as his flotilla sailed up the coast of South America and
proved that the Pacific was no longer a Spanish lake .
The duke of Alba recognized that the plot had turned England from a neutral
observer into a covert enemy, but ‘regarded the queen as quite justified m what
she had done and is still doing’ against Spain and urged Philip to meet all
Elizabeth’s conditions for a restoration of peace. At first the king resisted - early
in 1574 he asked his new lieutenant in the Netherlands, Don Luis de Requesens,
to evaluate the feasibility of a fresh invasion, commissioned a survey of the
southern coast of Ireland and apparently toyed with the idea of sending a part of
the fleet assembled in Santander for the reconquest of the Netherlands to capture
an Irish port - but later that year he followed Alba s advice and concluded a full
settlement of all outstanding differences with England. Indeed, in an attempt to
restore harmonious relations, Philip conceded more than Elizabeth had required,
where she had asked only that those whom she had exiled from England should be
expelled from the Netherlands, Philip ordered the expulsion of ^// English Catholics
and even decreed the closure of the English seminary at Douai. His reward
came the following year: when storms drove a fleet of fifty vessels carrying Spanish
troops to the Army of Flanders to take shelter in English ports, they received
courteous treatment, and Elizabeth temporarily moderated her support for the
Dutch.
In fact Philip had few alternatives: the war in the Mediterranean and after 1572
also in the Netherlands (the designated launching pad for the invasion of
England), absorbed prodigious amounts of money (see Table 4 on p. 135 above).
As the papal secretary of state put it, ‘I do not see how His Majesty can undertake
the necessary expenditure [for the Enterprise of England}, while he has to pay for
the campaign against the Turks’. As long as the Mediterranean war continued, he
believed, Philip lacked both the time and the money to attack England. Pope
Gregory XIII, however, who succeeded Pius V in 1572, shared his predecessors
interest in restoring England to the Catholic church and decided that even though
Philip could no longer act alone he could at least favour the anti-Elizabethan
designs of others. Early in 1575 he authorized Nicholas Ormanetto, his nuncio in
Spain and a man who had worked alongside the king to re-Catholicize England in
the 1550s, to persuade Philip either to send Don John of Austria to the Netherlands,
with orders to invade England and regain it for the faith, or (failing that)
to lend his support to an assault on Ireland under papal aegis. To Ormanetto s
delight, the king once again sounded out his military commander in the Netherlands
about mounting an invasion, and meanwhile declared himself willing to
fund and transport a papal force of 2,000 men to Ireland.^^
1575 was a Jubilee year which brought many English Catholic exiles to Rome.
Early the following year two of their leaders, William Allen and Francis
Englefield, presented the pope with a memorial demonstrating that England
could easily be won back for the faith by sending some 5,000 musketeers,
commanded by Thomas Stukeley (then also in Rome), from Italy direct to
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y 165
Liverpool. This, they argued, would provoke a general rising of the English
Catholics (particularly numerous in Lancashire), allowing the expeditionary force
to liberate Mary Stuart from captivity and proclaim her queen of England. She
would then marry a consort nominated by Philip. The pope immediately endorsed
this bold plan, again termed ‘The Enterprise of England’; and it also received
enthusiastic endorsement from the Spanish ambassador at the papal Court, Don
Juan de Zuniga, who hailed it as a bargain since Philip needed to provide only a
subsidy of 100,000 ducats and his blessing.The king expressed great enthusiasm
for the project in principle, and even sent Zuniga half the subsidy requested,
but he soon claimed that it was too late in the year to mount an invasion before
the winter made navigation too hazardous and that any diversion of his resources
- severely restricted after the state bankruptcy in September 1575 — would
imperil the defence of the Mediterranean.
The pope persisted, however, and in August 1576 again asked Philip to
undertake the invasion. At first the king remained cautious: ‘Nobody desires more
than I that the matter be put in hand, but when and how depend on the way
things go in Flanders, and on many other considerations’, he wrote. Four months
later he approved the plans hatched by Don John of Austria, newly appointed
governor-general of the Netherlands, to invade England the following year should
the opportunity arise; but this scheme, too, aborted. By the time Don John arrived
in the Low Countries in November 1576, the entire royal army there had either
mutinied or deserted so that he lacked both the authority and the resources to
undertake any major enterprise.For a moment he and the king toyed with the
idea of sending the Spanish veterans in the Netherlands back to Spain by sea, and
making a surprise descent upon an English port, and the pope enthusiastically
welcomed this course of action; but when early in 1577 news arrived that a major
Turkish fleet might sail west that summer, the king ordered the veterans to return
overland to Italy instead in order to help defend the Mediterranean.” The pope
perforce fell back on the troops gathered in Italy for the ‘Enterprise’: 600 men
under Stukeley’s command left Porto Ercole in February 1577 and reached Lisbon
shortly afterwards.
Both Don John and Gregory XIII continued to bombard Philip with pleas to
persevere with the invasion of England, and other ministers also chimed in -
according to the Spanish ambassador in Paris, ‘everything evil comes from
England’ - but their pleas only served to make Elizabeth aware of the conspiracy
being hatched against her, since some crucial letters on the subject were intercepted
and deciphered. As Zuniga lamented: ‘The worst is that the queen now
knows what we had planned and feels the same indignation as if the enterprise had
taken place.In the event, Stukeley and his men grew tired of waiting and in
1578 joined Sebastian of Portugal’s ‘crusade’ to conquer Morocco where, at the
battle of Alcazarquivir, like Sebastian, most of them perished. Only a few survivors
made their way back to the Iberian peninsula whence, the following year,
Philip reluctantly allowed them to sail to Smerwick, a large but remote natural
harbour in County Kerry, where they fortified a promontory overlooking the bay.
The Formation of Grand Strategy
called the ‘Gastello del Oro’ (the Golden Castle), and launched an appeal to
Catholic Europe for reinforcements.^^
Philip’s attempts to orchestrate from Spain a complex operation against Elizabeth
in conjunction with the Papacy thus proved no more successful than his earlier
efforts to ‘go it alone’. A combination of confusion, suspicion and delay — which
would recur in the 1580s — frustrated every intention. Serious structural obstacles
repeatedly thwarted detailed strategic planning between Madrid and Rome: the
difficulties of coordinating a campaign quickly enough to be put into effect the
same year, and the danger of a security leak if it took longer; disputes over the best
strategy to follow and over who should choose the next ruler of England;^^ the
propensity of both pope and king to change their minds - and their plans -
without consulting each other;^^ and the temptation to withhold promised funds
in order to pressure the other party to accept those changes.All would reappear
a decade later. The rhetoric and the strategic goals of 1575—79 would also reemerge
during the planning of the Armada campaign: the euphemisms used at
this time (such as ‘the Enterprise of England’ and ‘the principal business’)
recurred; while the commitment to replace Elizabeth Tudor with Mary Stuart,
and the argument that ‘His Majesty will never be at peace until England is
conquered’, both remained articles of faith at the Court of Spain.
Nevertheless Philip still stopped short of promising to overthrow Elizabeth: as
he constantly reminded the pope, he had fully committed his resources elsewhere.
Admittedly, in 1577 he managed to extricate himself from the Mediterranean
war, which allowed him to reduce his defence establishment there dramatically;
but he exploited this advantage to send the treasure and troops to the Netherlands
that enabled war against his Dutch rebels to resume.^^ The following year,
Sebastian’s death at Alcazarquivir left Philip as the closest male heir to the
Portuguese empire and brought to the fore the traditional priorities of the Spanish
crown. In the stirring phrase of a royal chaplain. Fray Hernando del Castillo:
Uniting the kingdoms of Portugal and Castile will make Your Majesty
the greatest king in the world . . . because if the Romans were able to rule the
world simply by ruling the Mediterranean, what of the man who rules the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans, since they surround the world?
Philip and most of his courtiers saw the unification of the peninsula as a vital step
on Spain’s road to global mastery. According to one councillor, acquiring Portugal
‘would be the principal, most effective, and decisive instrument and remedy
for the reduction of the Netherlands to obedience’ as well as a useful means of
controlling England. As Hernando del Castillo tersely put it: ‘The gain or loss [of
Portugal} will mean the gain or loss of the world’.
Philip apparently paid heed. Scarcely had Lisbon fallen than he resolved to seek
a measure of revenge for the depredations of Drake in the Pacific, and for
Elizabeth’s aid to the Dutch, by sending assistance to the papal contingent in
166 The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y
Ireland. In September 1580, after consulting the duke of Alba (who, as usual,
strongly opposed the venture), Philip authorized Juan Martinez de Recalde to
convey some 800 Spanish and Italian volunteers to Smerwick. Unfortunately for
them, however, shortly after Recalde departed, Elizabeth’s military and naval
forces surrounded the Gastello del Oro and, although the troops within surrendered
in return for a promise that their lives would be spared, the English
immediately massacred all but twenty-three of them in cold blood.^"*
Their king scarcely felt their loss amid the wealth and resources gained in
Portugal and her overseas empire. Above all, he gained ten fighting galleons
constructed in the 1570s by the Portuguese crown for the defence of seaborne
trade, together with the great natural harbour of Lisbon in which to station them.
Apart from the English navy, which at the time numbered scarcely twenty
fighting ships (some of them very old), Philip now possessed the best warfleet in
the western world. Its qualities were soon demonstrated. Most of the Azores
archipelago refused to recognize the Spanish succession, instead acknowledging
the claim of Dom Antonio, prior of Crato, Sebastian’s illegitimate cousin; but in
1582 an expeditionary force of sixty ships, led by the royal galleons and commanded
by the resourceful and experienced marquis of Santa Cruz, sailed from
Lisbon and destroyed Dom Antonio’s larger fleet (prepared in France and containing
some English and Dutch vessels) in a battle off the island of Sao Miguel. Only
the island of Terceira now held out, garrisoned by Portuguese, French and English
troops; and in 1583 an even larger Armada, consisting of 98 ships and over 15,000
men (again commanded by Santa Cruz), carried out a skilful combined operation
that reconquered it.^^
Jubilation at the marquis of Santa Cruz’s success reached such heights that,
according to some Spaniards, ‘even Christ was no longer safe in Paradise, for the
marquis might go there to bring him back and crucify him all over again’, while
Cardinal Granvelle urged that the time had now come to take up other enterprises
that would advance God’s cause — ‘and all the more so, since in doing His work
we are also doing our own’.^^ Nor did celebration stop at verbal hyperbole. A
mural of Santa Cruz’s victory off Sao Miguel soon filled one wall of the Hall of
Battles in the Escorial; a special medal commemorating the union of the two great
world empires bore the legend the world is not enough (Plate 2 above); while
a bowl commemorating the Terceira campaign of 1583 (found among the
wreckage of a Spanish Armada vessel that foundered off Ireland five years later)
shows Spain’s warrior patron saint with new attributes. St James still rides a
charger, with his sword-arm raised to strike down his foes; but these foes are no
longer cowering infidels but the swirling waves of the Ocean Sea, waves now
subdued by Spain along with the human enemies who sought refuge amongst
them (Plate 23).^^ The euphoria even affected Santa Cruz who, flushed by his
success, pointed out to the king in August 1583 that:
Victories as complete as the one God has been pleased to grant Your Majesty
in these [Azores] islands normally spur princes on to other enterprises; and
167
168 The Formation of Grand Strategy
Plate 23 ‘The Terceira Bowl’. One of the officers aboard the Armada ship La Trinidad Valencera
took with him a souvenir of an earlier campaign, the victorious combined operation led by the
marquis of Santa Cruz to capture Terceira island in the Azores in 1583. The base of the bowl
shows St James the ‘Moor-slayer’, Spain’s patron saint, subduing the waves of the Ocean Sea with
a suitable Latin inscription. In the event the bowl sank when the ship ran aground off Kinnagoe
Bay in northern Ireland, and there it remained until excavated almost four centuries later.
since Our Lord has made Your Majesty such a great king, it is just that you
should follow up this victory by making arrangements for the invasion of
England next year.
Meanwhile, in Scotland, a group of Catholics led by the duke of Lennox,
favourite of the 16-year-old James VI, in 1582 hatched a plot to restore Catholicism
and sought the assistance of co-religionists abroad - in the Netherlands,
France, Italy and Spain. In the event, a Protestant splinter group seized James
later that year and Lennox lost his influence.The continental Catholic leaders
The ‘British Problem’, lyyS—Sy 169
did not give up, however: in the summer of 1583 various meetings took place in
Paris between the papal nuncio and the Spanish ambassador in France, the duke
of Guise (leader of the French Catholics), and some British exiles to plan an
invasion of southern Scotland or northern England. In August Gregory XIII
offered to contribute 400,000 ducats to the cost of the venture and sent an envoy
to Madrid to secure Philip’s support.^”
The king remained as reluctant as ever to cooperate in a joint venture with the
French. He did, however, commission maps and surveys of the English coast; he
ordered close study of previous attempts to invade England (from the Romans and
Saxons down to the Ridolfi plot and the Smerwick landing); and he asked both
Santa Cruz and the prince of Parma, governor-general of the Netherlands since the
death of Don John in 157^) whether they could provide support for the invasion
from the forces at their command.Parma proved reluctant, but Santa Cruz and
his entourage swiftly assembled a dossier that ruled out a descent on ports in
remote (albeit Catholic) areas such as Liverpool or Milford Haven and instead
advocated a landing in irresistible force as close to London as possible.^^
In October 1583 Philip yet again changed his mind and pulled out, stating
coyly that ‘the season of the year is now so far advanced that it excludes any other
designs that we may have had’. He decided to send the victorious veterans of the
Terceira campaign to the Netherlands via Italy, instead of holding them in
readiness for a descent upon England.” The pope and the duke of Guise persisted,
however. In November Don Juan de Zuniga, now the king’s chief adviser on
foreign affairs, received a diffident letter from the Spanish ambassador in Rome
containing the news that ‘His Holiness has proposed that His Majesty should
marry the queen of Scots, saying that in this way he can once more become king
of England’. He added, no doubt for Zuniga’s eyes alone: ‘The pope expressly told
me to write this to His Majesty, but through embarrassment I have chosen to do
so through you.’ Inevitably, the king saw the letter and scribbled: ‘I do not feel
any embarrassment at being told what should be done; but I do feel it with
something so inappropriate as this - the more so because I know that I could not
fulfil the obligation of either governing that kingdom {of England} or of going
there, having so many other duties that it is impossible to fulfil even those as I
would wish.’^‘^ The king seemed no more eager to marry Mary Stuart than —
twenty-five years before - he had been to marry Elizabeth. He did, however,
countenance the support offered by his ambassador in London, Don Bernardino de
Mendoza, to a new plot (devised by Francis Throckmorton) aimed at eliminating
Elizabeth and replacing her with Mary Stuart, who would then marry a Catholic
prince favourable to Spain.
Philip’s attention and resources throughout the 1580s increasingly centred upon
developments in north-west Europe. In 1581 his Dutch rebels declared Philip
deposed and chose Francis Hercules, duke of Alengon (and later Anjou), brother
and heir presumptive to Henry III of France, as their sovereign ruler with the style
‘prince and lord of the Netherlands’. He soon moved to the Low Countries
170 The Formation of Grand Strategy
accompanied by a powerful French army and a substantial supply of French gold;
he also announced his betrothal to Elizabeth Tudor. Meanwhile some of his Dutch
supporters transferred the strategic enclave of Cambrai, an imperial fief previously
ruled by Philip, to French control.In 1582 another French expeditionary force
entered the Netherlands to support Anjou and the Dutch, while followers of Dom
Antonio received permission from Henry III to raise an army and navy to defend
the Azores.
Alarmed and offended by these acts of open aggression, Philip decided to
retaliate by stirring up Henry Ill’s discontented subjects. He had already made
contact with the militantly Catholic duke of Guise - money had changed hands
in 1578 and they had discussed the joint invasion of England in 1583 — but now
the subsidies became more regular and more substantial, and Philip promised
his protection against the Erench Protestants should Henry die.^^ Shortly afterwards,
Philip also proposed an alliance to the Huguenot leader Henry of Navarre,
offering to pay a subsidy and even to marry Henry’s sister Catherine in return for
Navarre’s re-conversion to Catholicism and a declaration of war against Henry
III.^^ Einally, he favoured the attempts of the maverick duke of Montmorency to
build an independent power base in south-west France, signing a draft treaty for
mutual military assistance in September 1583.^® Meanwhile, Philip’s forces in the
Netherlands, under Parma’s able command, began to make spectacular progress:
they regained the key ports of the Flemish coast - Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort -
in 1583 and some major cities of the interior - Bruges and Ghent - in 1584.
That same year first the duke of Anjou and then William of Orange died, and
Parma daringly decided to besiege Antwerp, the largest city in northern Europe,
boasting a population of 100,000.
To support these various undertakings, the king began to show greater financial
foresight. In spring 1582 he ordered his treasury officials to prepare an imperial
budget for the two succeeding years, in order to assure a more stable and predictable
flow of money to all the government’s various undertakings. In the summer
of 1583, at his command, they did the same again.In 1584 the king decided to
send 2 million ducats in cash - half in silver ‘pieces of eight’ and half in gold -
from Barcelona to Milan, where it formed a strategic reserve both to finance
Parma’s reconquest of Elanders and Brabant and to subsidize the Erench Catholics,
and for almost two years consignments of 600,000 ducats travelled punctually in
overland convoys to the Netherlands every four months, with more periodically
shipped to France. Yet more money was apparently stored in strong-boxes in the
royal palace in Madrid.
The steady stream of Spanish successes - in the Azores, the Netherlands and
France - alarmed Elizabeth. Some of her councillors, including the earl of
Leicester (her favourite) and Sir Francis Walsingham (her secretary of state), had
long regarded war with Spain as inevitable at some point and therefore favoured
a pre-emptive strike by England before Philip could concentrate his resources. In
1581 (the year after the Smerwick incident) a consortium of courtiers and others
raised money for a naval expedition to support Dom Antonio, temporarily a
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y 171
refugee in England: Francis Drake, newly returned from his circumnavigation,
offered to lead it to the Azores. When Mendoza threatened in August that Spain
would regard open support for the ‘Portuguese pretender’ as a casus belli, however,
calmer heads prevailed and Elizabeth ordered the ships, ordnance, men and
victuals to be ‘discharged’. ‘All the flagges etc with the armes of Portugal’ were
sold to Dom Antonio, who promptly moved to France.
Some of the English vessels assembled for the expedition nevertheless joined
Dom Antonio in a private capacity on his unsuccessful Azores venture, while
others sailed on the troublesome voyage led by Edward Eenton in 1582, with
orders to establish an English trading base in the Moluccas (under licence from
Dom Antonio) and to send home rich cargoes of spices. The venture did not
prosper. Fenton’s chief pilot, Thomas Hood, rejoiced in unorthodox methods of
navigation: ‘I give not a fart for all their cosmography’, he boasted, ‘for I can tell
more than all the cosmographers in the world’. Not surprisingly he guided his
little fleet, not to the Moluccas, but first to Africa and then to the River Plate,
where a Spanish squadron closed in at a time when the crews were drunk. The
damage sustained proved so severe that most ships had to return home, although
one collided with the coast of Brazil, delivering the men aboard to the native
inhabitants who (according to rumour) enslaved the fittest and ate the rest.^^
Meanwhile, in England, Mendoza’s involvement in the Throckmorton plot led
to his expulsion early in 1584 for ‘conduct incompatible with his diplomatic
status’ (namely, seeking to encompass the queen’s death), and increased the
pressure of the ‘war party’ at Elizabeth’s Court for more overt action against
Philip. Anjou’s death in June 1584 strengthened their hand yet further because,
although incompetent and unprepossessing, the duke had fulfilled two important
political functions. First, his role as ‘prince and lord of the Netherlands’ had
virtually guaranteed French support for the Dutch; now his death jeopardized it,
especially after the assassination of William of Orange the following month.
Anjou’s mother, Catherine de Medici, predicted that without the two leaders the
king of Spain would quickly complete the reconquest of the Low Countries and
‘after that ... he will not fail to attack this kingdom [France} and England’.
Second, Anjou had ranked as heir presumptive to his childless brother Henry III
and, because the Salic Law restricted succession to the Erench crown to the nearest
male relative of the monarch, his death left the Protestant Henry of Navarre as the
new heir presumptive.
In Spain, the death of Anjou caused both rejoicing and concern. It removed
a thorn in Parma’s side in the Netherlands, allowing him to concentrate on the
siege of Antwerp without fearing another ‘stab in the back’ from France. In
February 1585 his engineers completed a massive fortified bridge across the
Scheldt below Antwerp, in order to prevent the arrival of relief. But the prospect
of Navarre’s succession to the French crown raised the spectre of an openly hostile
regime in Paris which might challenge Philip’s authority in all areas. As soon as
he heard the news of Anjou’s death, the king commissioned Don Juan de Zuniga
to work out the best policy to prevent this. Several cogent analytical papers came
back within the week, all starting with the premise that ‘Your Majesty is obliged
to make sure that no heretic succeeds [to the throne of France}, both because you
have a duty always to defend and protect the Catholics and because any heretic
must necessarily be an enemy of Your Majesty’. Zuniga perceived three ways of
achieving this goal: open military intervention; an alliance with Henry III; or a
secret alliance with the French Catholics. Since a declaration of war would prove
ruinously expensive, and since Henry had shown himself to be ‘ill-willed and
unstable up to now’, Zuniga recommended the third course of action - alliance
with the French Catholics. At the same time, he noted that the Catholics had no
credible candidate for the throne, should Henry die childless, and he therefore
advocated marrying the duke of Savoy to one of Philip’s adolescent daughters,
since they were the oldest surviving grandchildren of Henry II of France and thus
possessed a potential claim to the throne: married to the powerful and ambitious
duke of Savoy, the Infanta would find a willing champion (see Table 3 on p. 79
above). The king entirely agreed: he lost no time in offering an alliance to the
French Catholic leader, Henry of Guise, and the following year the duke of Savoy
married Philip’s daughter Catalina.^^
Guise also considered a Protestant king totally unacceptable and he created a
paramilitary organization, the ‘League’, dedicated to securing a Catholic succession.
While Henry III negotiated with the Dutch about continuing French
support for their struggle against Philip, Spanish envoys opened negotiations
with Guise for a closer alliance. The offer of funds to help keep the League’s army
prepared, and of military assistance should civil war break out, culminated in a
treaty signed at Guise’s palace at Joinville on 31 December 1584 that guaranteed
both objectives. In return, the League leaders promised to do their best to further
Spain’s designs elsewhere in Europe.®^ Philip began to reap the benefits almost
immediately: in March 1585 Henry III not only refused an invitation to assume
Anjou’s mantle in the Netherlands but also signed a formal agreement with Guise
(the treaty of Nemours) which ceded several important towns to the League’s
control, and promised to work towards extirpating Protestantism.*^
This further round of Spanish successes greatly increased Elizabeth’s sense of
isolation. In October 1584 her Privy Council had conducted a major review of the
Netherlands situation and concluded that, in the wake of the death of Anjou
and Orange, the rebels’ prospects seemed hopeless without foreign aid. Almost
unanimously the council urged the queen to intervene.*^ Still she procrastinated,
however, hoping that Henry III would take up Anjou’s commitments; but she
conceded that, if no aid came from other quarters, England would have to provide
assistance.** When, therefore, in March 1585 Henry indicated that he would not
help the Dutch and news of the treaty of Joinville arrived, English ministers
began to negotiate with envoys sent by the Republic to forge a formal alliance.*^
Although anxious to delay open support for Philip’s rebels as long as possible,
fearing that (as Mendoza had threatened) it would provoke all-out war with Spain,
in August 1584 Elizabeth nevertheless agreed to sponsor another semi-private
naval attack on Spanish overseas interests, creating a special fund ‘to be issued
172 The Formation of Grand Strategy The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y 173
from tyme to tyme’ on the orders of a commission consisting of Burghley,
Walsingham and Lord Admiral Howard. The money went to Sir Francis Drake
who, by the end of November 1584, had assembled a fleet of 15 ships (two of them
the queens warships) and 20 pinnaces, with 1,600 men (500 of them soldiers)
for an expedition to the East Indies. The total cost was estimated at £40,000
(about 160,000 ducats), of which the queen agreed to contribute almost half in
cash and ships.The following month, however, Elizabeth changed her mind and
suspended the project — although she allowed a small colonizing expedition to sail
to America (a precarious settlement briefly took root at Roanoke in North
Carolina), and Drake continued to keep his force in being.^^ In April 1585, as a
gesture of support to the Dutch, she suspended all English trade with the Spanish
Netherlands.
Meanwhile the siege of Antwerp continued. In Madrid, Philip and his ministers
hoped that its capture might cause the collapse of Dutch resistance and
discussed how best to second the efforts of Parma and his troops in the trenches.
Granvelle (who had since 1579 served as a senior minister in Madrid) argued
strongly that the sudden seizure of all Dutch shipping in Spain and Portugal,
followed by a prohibition of the rebels’ lucrative trade with the Iberian peninsula,
might bring the revolt to a swift end.^ Although it would inevitably harm
the economy of both the Iberian peninsula and the Spanish Netherlands, the
king appears to have been ready to order an embargo in September 1584; but
news of the death of Anjou and Orange the previous July and the possibility
that the revolt might collapse without them anyway caused a change of plan.^^
Yet the rebel cause did not founder. Instead, Antwerp continued to resist and
Granvelle repeated that: In my opinion Holland and Zealand could easily be
reduced if we deprive them of the trade with Spain and Portugal; and I am
sure that in the end, when everything has been discussed, we shall have to do it’.
The ideal time, he suggested, was either the autumn, when the Iberian ports
would be full of Dutch vessels coming to collect wine, olive oil and other newly
harvested crops, or the spring, when they brought Baltic grain; and he recommended
the blanket seizure of all foreign vessels, except for those of Catholic
states: I would arrest all of them, and afterwards we can discuss which should be
released and which should not.’^^
Elizabeth’s prohibition of trade with the Spanish Netherlands in April 1585
played right into Granvelle’s hands. Philip now decided to implement the policy
advocated by the cardinal for so long and the following month ordered the
embargo of all foreign ships in Iberian ports, save only the French (on account, he
claimed, of their small size). Characteristically, he carried it out in a complex and
clandestine manner.
Do it [he told his agents in the ports} in such a way that, for the present, it will
be understood that ships belonging to the rebels of all my states, and those from
Hanseatic [ports} and Germany, and from England, will be embargoed on the
grounds and with the pretence of wanting to create a great fleet. Having done
174
The Formation of Grand Strategy
this, once they have been embargoed and detained, we will know wbat have
in all areas [of the peninsula} and can better ordain what should be done.
Accordingly, again as Granvelle had suggested, in July the king ordered the
release first of all German and Hanseatic vessels (with compensation for the perio
of detention) and later of the English, leaving only the Dutch, whose vessels e
eventually either incorporated into royal service or else sold by auction.
In one respect, the gambit worked extremely well: Dutch trade with the
Iberian peninsula temporarily collapsed as scores of Holland and Zealand vessels
suffered arrest and the Republic immediately halted further sailings to Spam an
Portugal The total of Dutch ships leaving the Danish Sound - most of them
bound for Iberian destinations - fell by 30 per cent and stayed low for three
vears^^ The decision to embargo non-Dutch ships as well proved a disaster
however, for when a party of Spanish officials came to arrest the English vessel
Primrose near Bilbao, the master decided to fight his way out, taking with him to
England not only the Spanish boarding party but also a copy of the embargo
decree and the magistrate who had attempted to enforce it.
The Spanish government never seems to have paused to consider how the
inclusion of English and Hanseatic along with Dutch vessels might be interpreted
in London. Granvelle, the architect of the scheme, did not care: on one occasion
he dismissed the English as ‘ordinarily of an unpleasant nature who hate foreigners
... I dislike them intensely and the best of them is not worth a fig . But
even Granvelle knew that it would be foolish to halt trade with England at the
same time as with the Netherlands: far better, he argued, to release the English
ships after verifying their identity because later on, in the absence of the Dutch,
‘we shall soon have our ports full of them’. That,^ he thought, would be the
optimum time to put a second embargo into effect.
Elizabeth and her ministers of course knew none of this. Her councillors lost no
time in studying the exact wording of the embargo decree served on the Primrose
and immediately noted that it affected only ships from Protestant lands since it
expressly exempted the French. To Sir Francis Walsingham, the queen’s eversuspicious
secretary of state who detected international conspiracy everywhere,
this seemed deeply sinister:
The late arrest that . . . hath ben made in Spayne of our shippes and the shippes
of othirs well affectid in relligion, with a spetyall excepcion (though cullorable)
of the French . . . cannot but be interpretid as a manifest argument of secreat
intelligence and mutuall concurrency lykely to be betwm the French and the
Spaniard for the ruyne and overthrow of the professours of the Ghospell.
The Spaniards aboard the Primrose, when interrogated in London, offered little
reassurance on Philip’s intentions: one of them informed his captors that hearing
that the Hollanders seake ayde in England and fearing least [- lest} they sha e
ayded’, the king of Spain ‘meaneth by this arreste to feare the Englishe from
The ‘British Problem’, iyy8—8y 175
ayding them’. Moreover an intercepted letter from a Spanish merchant in Andalusia
to his partner in Rouen spoke unequivocally of ‘the state of war that now
exists with England’.
Temperatures in England already ran high: in the wake of the Throckmorton
plot (in which Spain had been deeply involved) and Orange’s assassination (which
everyone knew had been carried out at Philip’s behest) the Privy Council made
contingency plans for an interim administration should Elizabeth die, and drafted
a ‘Bond of Association’ which pledged that, should she perish by violent means,
Mary Stuart would automatically and immediately be executed. Meanwhile military
and naval preparations went ahead apace. Walsingham devised ‘A plott for
the annoying of the king of Spayne’ which involved seizing all Spanish vessels
off Newfoundland and sending Drake back to the West Indies - even though
Walsingham recognized that these ‘inconveniences’ would force Philip to declare
war.^°^ Not all Englishmen longed for war, however. Between September 1583
and September 1584 English merchants imported from the Iberian peninsula
goods worth almost £30,000 (two-thirds through London, where 132 vessels
landed goods from Spain and Portugal in the course of the year) and exported
goods worth about £20,000 (about 80,000 ducats): hostilities with Spain would
end this trade and ruin them.^*^^* But their fears seem to have weighed little with
the queen and her ministers as they assessed the potential consequences of Parma’s
apparently inexorable progress in the Netherlands, of first Philip’s and then
Henry’s treaty with the French Catholic League, and above all of the embargo.
For the first time in her reign, perhaps, a clear majority of the council now
favoured war.
In June 1585 Elizabeth invited Dom Antonio to return to England (he arrived
in September), and later that month she commissioned a small English squadron
to sail to Newfoundland with orders to attack the Iberian fishing fleet (it later
returned to England with many boats and about 600 captive mariners). Shortly
afterwards the Privy Council drew up regulations for the issue of licences for any
subjects affected by the embargo, allowing them to make good their losses by
plundering any ship sailing under Philip’s colours, as if a state of war existed
between the two countries.In July 1585 Drake again received permission to
purchase stores and press men for his voyage ‘into forraine parts’.News of
Philip’s decision to release all English ships affected by the embargo failed to
change the queen’s mind: on 20 August, at her palace of Nonsuch, she signed a
formal treaty with the Dutch envoys which, together with a supplementary treaty
three weeks later, promised to provide over 6,000 regular troops for their army,
to pay one quarter of their defence budget, and to supply an experienced councillor
to coordinate government in the rebel provinces and to lead their army. In
return the Republic promised to place three strategic ports under English control,
which would serve as sureties until the queen’s expenses could be repaid once
Spain had recognized their independence.
The treaty of Nonsuch came too late to save Antwerp, which fell on 17 August;
but within a month (as Parma angrily noted) over 4,000 English troops had
iy6 The Formation of Grand Strategy
arrived at Flushing, one of the three Dutch ports ceded to Elizabeth by treaty/®^
Meanwhile, Drake’s squadron of twenty-five ships (two of them the queen’s
warships) and eight pinnaces, carrying 1,900 men (1,200 of them soldiers), sailed
from Plymouth. On 7 October 1585 they arrived off Galicia and for the next ten
days launched raids on several villages in the vicinity of Bayona, desecrating
churches, collecting booty, and taking hostages.
Why exactly Drake chose to raid Galicia remains unclear: neither his commission
nor his instructions seem to have survived. Perhaps he needed to take on
stores following a hasty departure from England; perhaps, as one of his officers
later wrote, he wished to undertake some initial act of bravado ‘to make our
proceedings known to the king of Spain’.Either way, no sovereign state could
overlook such an act of naked aggression. Don Diego Pimentel, a senior Armada
commander captured in 1588, told his interrogators then that:
The reason why the king undertook this war [against England] was that he
could not tolerate the fact that Drake, with two or three rotten ships, should
come to infest the harbours of Spain whenever it pleased him, and to capture its
best towns in order to plunder them.^^^
Elizabeth’s succession of aggressive acts in the summer of 1585 in response to
Philip’s embargo decree - kidnapping the fishing fleet, welcoming Dom Antonio,
issuing letters of marque, sending soldiers and subsidies under treaty to assist
rebellious subjects, and now invading the peninsula — sent an unmistakable
message. On 13 October, as soon as he heard of Drake’s actions in Galicia, the
imperial ambassador in Madrid warned his master that ‘with this act the English
have removed their mask towards Spain’. Two weeks later his French colleague
reported that the English had ‘sacked’ Bayona, killed some clerics and done
damage ‘approaching 300,000 crowns’; and the Venetian ambassador, having
described the same outrages, also forwarded a list of the twenty-six ships captured
by the ‘English pirates’ off the coasts of Spain.All three diplomats concluded
that Elizabeth’s actions amounted to a declaration of war.
Philip’s foreign policy towards England had thus backfired yet again. As in 1559—
60 over Scotland and in 1568-74 over the treasure ships, the king and his
ministers had consistently underestimated the political acumen, the determination
and the ‘luck’ of Elizabeth. In part, these repeated failures arose from Philip’s
preoccupation with other matters and from his isolation from the political scene
in northern Europe: the war in the Mediterranean until 1577, the Morisco
rebellion in 1568-71, the Dutch Revolt after 1572, the chance to annex Portugal
(including the Azores) between 1578 and 1583, and finally the opportunity to
intervene in France after 1584 all diverted attention from England. At the same
time the expulsion of Ambassadors Spes and Mendoza, and Philip’s insistence that
any permanent English representative in Spain be a Catholic, reduced his information
on the balance of factions at Elizabeth’s Court, while his travels around Spain
The ‘British Problem’, lyyS-Sy 177
istracted him further: he was at Barcelona celebrating the wedding of his
aughter to the duke of Savoy when he signed the embargo order, at Monzon (a
remote town of Aragon) when news of Drake’s attack on Galicia arrived, and at
Tortosa (at the mouth of the Ebro) when he finally decided to retaliate.
Nevertheless, for the first time since 1556, a major European ruler had, in
ehect, declared war on Spain, and Philip had mainly himself to blame for it He
had repeatedly broken one of the cardinal rules of Grand Strategy: that, usually,
less IS more . Although each major state must maintain a substantial militari^
force to protect its strategic interests in key areas, peripheral challenges are best
met through non-mihtary means - indeed the trick is to do as little as necessary
to defeat each challenge. Alba had it right: Elizabethan England was inherently
unstable and so should be left alone as far as possible to pursue a policy of‘glorious
ISO ation . Given the existence of an influential ‘peace party’ among Elizabeth’s
councillors until at least 1584, and given the permanent uncertainty surrounding
the succession should the childless queen die, there is no reason to doubt that the
s iltul deployment of non-military instruments would have minimized English
interference abroad whilst enhancing Philip’s reputation for resolve and strength.
ow, owever, having repeatedly failed - and been seen to fail - to bring England
back into the Habsburg orbit by diplomacy and plots, and having in effect
provoked Elizabeth to attack him openly, Philip found himself faced with the
much more costly option of meeting force with force.
6 The ‘Enterprise of England’, i^8^-88
Pope Gregory XIII made one last effort before his death to interest Philip II in
the invasion of England. This time he worked through the grand duke of
Tuscany, who in February 1585 sent Luigi Dovara, an agent with considerable
experience of negotiating at the Court of Spain, to offer financial support for a
new ‘enterprise’.^ In July, shortly after Dovara’s arrival in Madrid, Philip also
received an appeal from the new pope, Sixtus V, loftily calling on Spain to
undertake some ‘outstanding enterprise’ for the faith, such as another attack on
Elizabeth. This seems to have irritated the king, for he scribbled angrily on the
back of the letter:
Doesn t [the reconquest of} the Low Countries seem ‘outstanding’ to them? Do
they never consider how much it costs? There is little to be said about the
English idea: one should stick to reality.^
For a while, Sixtus obligingly shifted his attention to the possibility of recapturing
Geneva, once possessed by the dukes of Savoy and now the citadel of
Calvinism; but in August he again proposed that Spain should invade England as
a prelude to the final reduction of Holland and Zealand. Once more Philip
rejected the idea, albeit slightly less firmly. After emphasizing the cost and the
long duration of the war in the Netherlands - ‘all because I will not yield an inch
over religion’ and ‘in order to maintain obedience there to God and his Holy See’
— the king urged his ambassador in Rome, the count of Olivares, to make the pope
see the problem from Spain’s point of view:
Let His Holiness judge whether I can undertake new enterprises, with this
one [the Dutch war} in its current state . . . because one cannot deal effectively
with more than one thing at a time; and let him consider whether reducing
the pressure there [in the Netherlands} for anything else would be right,
or a service to Our Lord . . . because the war is fought against heretics,
which is what the pope wants. He should not think me idle as long as it
continues.
179
i8o The Formation of Grand Strategy
Nevertheless, he conceded,
If God is pleased to end that war, as (with His favour) one may hope, then there
would be a way to satisfy (the pope’s} holy zeal - and my desire, which is no
different from his - in some other area. You must not tell him all this in a way
that totally closes the door to every proposal similar to the one he has just made,
but instead make him understand that, as long as I am so busy with the war in
the Netherlands, which is as holy as a war can be, I could not (even though I
wish to) find the money for others.
Almost immediately Philip wrote to his son-in-law, the duke of Savoy, approving
his plan to recapture Geneva, as suggested by the pope.^ Dovara, still at the
Spanish Court, had almost abandoned hope when news arrived on 11 October
1585 that Drake’s forces had landed in Galicia four days earlier.
The responses of Spain’s leaders to this outrage varied. In Lisbon the marquis
of Santa Cruz, captain-general of the Ocean Sea since June 1584, drew up a
memorandum of necessary defensive measures to prevent further attacks on the
peninsula, to clear the seas of hostile vessels, and to safeguard Spanish America
against the possibility (soon to become reality) that Drake might continue his
depredations there.^ Archbishop Rodrigo de Castro of Seville, however, roundly
condemned the document (copies of which, he claimed, circulated in the streets
and squares’ of his city) as craven and pusillanimous. What was the point, he
enquired in November, of chasing after Drake, a fine sailor with a powerful fleet?
Surely the best way to end the English menace would be to attack England and,
since Drake would probably be absent from home waters for some months, if we
are going to undertake a campaign against England there will never be a better
time’. The king, who saw this letter, agreed. On the dorse he wrote: ‘the decision
has already been taken’.^
It had indeed: on 24 October 1585, just over two weeks after Drake’s forces
landed in Galicia, Philip dictated letters to inform both the pope and the grand
duke of Tuscany that he accepted their invitation to undertake the conquest of
England, and entrusted the letters to Luigi Dovara for personal delivery. The king
sounded only two notes of caution. First, ‘Although His Holiness and His Majesty
agree and are of the same mind about this enterprise, the lack of time (since
putting the venture into effect requires extensive preparations) excludes the
possibility of doing it in 1586, and so it will have to be delayed until 1587-
Second, because the total cost of the enterprise seemed likely to exceed 3 million
ducats, while the war in the Netherlands already stretched Spain’s finances to the
limit, the king declared himself ‘happy to contribute what he can, but states that
it cannot be more than a third — or at the most a half — of the cost. The rest will
have to come from {Rome and Florence} . In all other respects, however, Philip s
response seemed positive, even enthusiastic.^
The king now commissioned his principal adviser on foreign affairs, Don Juan
de Zuniga, to prepare a thorough review of Spain’s security priorities in the light
181
of recent developments. Like his earlier analyses of the impact of the duke of
Anjou s death (pp. 171-2 above), Zuniga’s position paper represented Spanish
strategic planning at its best. He identified at the outset four major enemies — the
Turks, the French, the Dutch and the English — and reasoned that the Turks,
although previously Spain’s foremost antagonist, had committed so many resources
to their struggle with Persia that Philip need only maintain a defensive
posture in the Mediterranean; while the French, also formerly a major threat, now
seemed so thoroughly mired in their own civil disputes that, although it might be
necessary to intervene at some stage in order to prolong them, the cost to Philip
would probably not be high. This left the Dutch and the English. The former had
been a thorn in Spain’s flesh since the rebellion of 1572 because every Spanish
success seemed to be followed by some countervailing reverse; but at least
the problem, although costly and humiliating, remained confined to the Low
Countries. The English menace was quite different: it had arisen recently and
it threatened the entire Hispanic world, for Elizabeth clearly supported the
Dutch and Dom Antonio as well as Drake. Zuniga argued that England had now
openly broken with Spain and that to fight a purely defensive war is to court a
huge and permanent expense, because we have to defend the Indies, Spain and the
convoys travelling between them’. An amphibious operation of overwhelming
strength, he reasoned, represented the most effective form of defence, and also the
cheapest. The immediate diversion of resources to the Enterprise of England
might temporarily compromise both the reconquest of the Netherlands and also
the security of Spanish America; but Zuniga felt the risk must be taken because,
so long as England remained uncowed, no part of Philip’s Monarchy would be
safe.^
Events soon vindicated Zuniga s analysis. On the one hand, Parma reported
a massive build-up of English forces in Holland, paid for by English subsidies,
culminating in December 1585 with the arrival of Elizabeth’s Favourite, the earl
of Leicester, to serve as governor-general of the rebellious provinces. On the other
hand, a constant stream of information poured back to Spain on the destruction
caused by Drake in the Canaries, in the Cape Verde Islands and finally in the
Caribbean (where he sacked first Santo Domingo, then Cartagena and finally St
Augustine). According to one of Drake s companions, the expedition caused
300,000 ducats worth of damage ‘upon the co[a}ste of Spaine’ and ‘300 millions’
in the Indies, while, in Germany, Elizabeth s envoy Sir Horatio Pallavicino
gloated that Drake s voyage had damaged Philip in two distinct ways: by reducing
his revenues as well as by increasing his costs, ‘since it is most certain that one
year of war in the Indies will cost the Spaniards more than three years of war in
the Netherlands . In Madrid, Cardinal Granvelle spoke for almost everyone when
he fretted, I keenly regret that the queen of England makes war on us so boldly
and dishonestly, and that we cannot get our own back’.^“
Small wonder, then, that the king became increasingly anxious to secure the
pope s agreement for an outright attack on England. On 6 November 1585, two
weeks after his initial favourable response, Philip instructed Ambassador Olivares
The ‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y~88
i82 The Formation of Grand Strategy
to ascertain whether Sixtus V truly desired the invasion of England, or whether
the proposal merely emanated from the grand duke of Tuscany and the late
Gregory XIII, whereas the new pope ‘himself inclines rather to some other
enterprise’." When confirmation on this point duly arrived, the king dictated and
signed two letters which committed him not only to carry out the conquest of
England but also to employ - as intended in both 1571 and 1575-77 - the Army
of Flanders to achieve it. On 29 December 1585 he invited the prince of Parma,
fresh from his triumphant reconquest of most of Flanders and Brabant, to propose
a suitable strategy for invasion. Four days later he authorized Olivares to discuss
with the pope certain political questions arising from the operation — how would
the invasion be justified to the world; what role would His Holiness and the
grand duke play; who would rule England after the death of Mary Stuart (still
the obvious successor to Elizabeth and explicitly recognized as ‘my sovereign’ by
many Catholics) - and to propose that Parma should command the expeditionary
force."
It was, of course, one thing to decide that the England must be invaded, and
quite another to make it happen. Nevertheless, nine English governments had
been overthrown or seriously undermined by seaborne invasions in the five centuries
since the Norman Conquest of 1066, with at least seven other successful
landings of major forces, and many more lesser raids (as well as seaborne assistance
against England sent to Scotland or Ireland). Philip II and his ministers compiled
a careful list of these various operations, and studied them. They concluded that
three strategies offered a reasonable prospect of success (Plate 24). The first
consisted of a simultaneous combined operation by a fleet strong enough both to
defeat the opposing English navy and to shepherd across the Channel an army
sufficient to accomplish the conquest (as William I had done in 1066 with
spectacular success). The second possible strategy involved assembling an army in
secret near the Channel while launching a diversionary assault on Ireland which
would draw off most of England’s defenders, leaving the mainland relatively open
to invasion by the main force (the Smerwick operation of 1579—80 seemed to
show the way). Finally, a surprise assault might be essayed (as, most recently,
Edward of York had done in 1471 and Henry Tudor in 1485)." That all these
possible strategies received consideration in 1586—88 reflects great credit on the
vision and competence of Philip and his ‘national security advisers’; that they tried
to undertake all three of them at once does not.
Confusion began to creep in when in January 1586 the king invited Santa Cruz
to assess how many ships and men would be needed to protect the coasts of Spain
and Portugal from further humiliating raids by ‘pirates’ like Drake. The marquis
obliged the following month, but accompanied his list with an eloquent plea that
the best way to defend the peninsula against the threat from England would be to
attack England itself, and (somewhat presumptuously) offered ‘to serve Your
Majesty myself in the enterprise in the firm hope that, being so much in Your
Majesty’s service, I will emerge just as victorious from it as in the other things
that I have done for you’." The proposal met with an enthusiastic reception, and
MAPB
Fleet ^
Army ■!•>-
S*
.SCOTLAND
(j^LAND ''ENGLAND
Waterford,
Kinsale*<^ i^fsPANISH
^ NETHERLANDS
.^^ifflssels
D^irl?*
Plate 24 Three proven invasion strategies against
England. A study of the numerous successful invasions
of England suggested to Philip II and his advisers that
three strategies enjoyed a fair chance of success: a
combined operation in strength across the Channel
(A); an attack by an invasion force assembled in secret
on the continent while the English navy was
distracted elsewhere (B); and finally a surprise attack
(C). Variations on these plans had either overthrown
or seriously undermined at least nine English
governments since 1066.
184 The Formation of Grand Strategy
Philip invited the marquis to prepare and send ‘a paper showing the way in which
you believe this could be effected, should circumstances permit’/^
This marked a radical departure in Spanish strategic thinking towards
England, because all previous plans had involved an invasion launched from the
Netherlands, not from the Iberian peninsula. Santa Cruz seized his opportunity
and, aided by the provisioner-general of the navy, in March sent a detailed
proposal entitled: ‘The fleet and army that it would seem necessary to assemble for
the conquest of England’. Unfortunately neither the proposal itself nor the
covering letters that survive reveal the precise strategy envisaged, but given the
size of the forces proposed - 510 ships, carrying 55,000 infantry and 1,600
cavalry, with all their supporting equipment, munitions and artillery - a direct
descent upon some point in England or Ireland must have been intended (without
any involvement of Parma’s troops from Elanders). Evidently Santa Cruz aimed to
emulate William the Conqueror, with an invasion in overwhelming strength.
Before this plan could be considered, however, reports of Drake’s sack
of Cartagena and later of Santo Domingo, and fears that the English intended
to establish a fortified base in the Caribbean, led the king to authorize
immediate and drastic action. In April he ordered Santa Cruz to join forces with
the transatlantic convoy escorts and sail straight to the Caribbean, there to seek
out and destroy Drake and his fleet. For the first (but certainly not for the
last) time, the marquis disobeyed: he informed the king that he needed more
ships and supplies in order to take on the English, and he refused to leave port
until he had them.^^ After many fruitless exchanges with his recalcitrant admiral,
the king decided to send just the escort vessels across the Atlantic (they left Seville
in May), while in July Santa Cruz sent six galleons from Lisbon to the Azores in
order to await and protect the fleets returning from America and Portuguese
India.
Philip did not forget the ‘principal enterprise’, however. Orders went out to
raise troops in Andalusia to reinforce the fleet in Lisbon, and to embargo and
arm suitable ships in the Cantabrian ports in order to form two new squadrons:
one composed of large merchantmen, the other comprising smaller vessels and
pinnaces.Meanwhile, in Rome, Ambassador Olivares raised again with the pope
the question of financial support for the invasion of England. Sixtus responded by
welcoming Philip’s zeal, approving the venture, and urging haste; but he absolutely
declined to contribute one-third (let alone one-half) of the cost. As the
ambassador ruefully admitted, ‘The reports flowing in from all parts concerning
the preparations that Your Majesty is making, which may be for this venture, have
done much harm’, because the pope argued that, since Spain clearly intended to
press ahead anyway, it could do so without a papal subsidy. Sixtus offered 300,000
ducats, in lieu of the million requested.
While the king pondered this disappointing response, a messenger arrived at
Court with Parma’s long-awaited proposal for the invasion of England. The 28-
page document began by regretting the lack of secrecy surrounding the king’s
intentions. The prince asserted that even ordinary soldiers and civilians in the
The‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y-88 185
Netherlands now openly discussed the best way to invade England. Nevertheless,
he believed that three basic precautions might still save the enterprise. First, the
king of Spain must have sole charge ‘without placing any reliance on either the
English themselves, or the assistance of other allies’. Second, the French must be
prevented from interfering, either by sending assistance to Elizabeth or by intervening
in the Netherlands. Third, sufficient troops and resources must remain
behind to defend the reconquered Netherlands against the Dutch once the assault
force had left.
After meeting these conditions, Parma suggested detaching a force of 30,000
foot and 500 horse from the Army of Flanders and ferrying it across the Channel
aboard a flotilla of seagoing barges to launch a surprise attack on England.
Provided his precise intentions remained a secret, ‘given the number of troops we
have to hand here, and the ease with which we can concentrate and embark
them in the barges, and considering that we can ascertain, at any moment, the
forces which Elizabeth has and can be expected to have, and that the crossing
only takes 10 to 12 hours without a following wind (and 8 hours with one)’, the
prince felt sure the invasion could be undertaken with a fair chance of success.
The most suitable, close and accessible point of disembarkation [he concluded},
is the coast between Dover and Margate’, which would permit a rapid march on
London. In essence, this represented the third alternative invasion strategy: a
surprise assault.
Only two paragraphs of the letter addressed the possibility of naval support
from Spain, and even then only in the context of ‘the worst case scenario’: that
somehow details of the plan had become known in England. In that case, Parma
since Drake s exploits had forced the king to mobilize a fleet to protect
the Atlantic, perhaps this new navy might ‘either sail suddenly up here in order
to assist and reinforce the troops who have already landed [in Kent} and keep open
the seaway between the coasts of Flanders and England; or else - if your fleet is
large, well-provided, well-armed and well-manned - it could create a diversion
which will draw the English fleet away [from the straits of Dover}’. This corresponded
to the third alternative strategy for invading England, the one later
favoured by Napoleon: a naval decoy to facilitate an attack by a relatively unprotected
invasion army.^^
To some extent, the long delay before Parma’s proposal arrived at Court
reduced its appeal. The king had asked for it in December 1585; yet Parma only
complied four months later, entrusting it to a special messenger, Giovanni
Battista Piatti, who travelled to Court by a circuitous route (via Burgundy and
Italy). It therefore did not reach the royal cipher clerks until 20 June and four
more days elapsed before the king’s advisers had debriefed Piatti about the exact
amount of shipping available in the ports of Flanders to ferry a major army across
the open sea, and about the possible advantage of seeking a landing place closer to
London. Then the king turned the dossier over to Don Juan de Zuniga, already
responsible for coordinating the preparations advocated by Santa Cruz, and
Zuniga in turn seems to have consulted Bernardino de Escalante.
i86
The archives of Philip’s government are full of letters and memorials written by
men like Escalante. Born in Laredo, the son of a prominent naval captain, he
had sailed to England with the king in 1554 spent fourteen months there
before enlisting as a soldier in the Spanish army in the Netherlands. He later
returned to Spain, went to university and evidently studied geography as well
as theology, for he later wrote an excellent treatise on navigation. After his
ordination, he served as an inquisitor until in 1581 he became major-domo to the
fire-eating archbishop of Seville, Don Rodrigo de Castro. Over the next twenty
years, Escalante sent over twenty papers of advice to the king, most of them
concerned with the war with England, and some clearly influenced by Castro’s
attitude. Moreover he managed to send these papers directly to the
king’s desk, as well as meeting with Secretary of State Idiaquez to discuss his
suggestions.^^
In June 1586 Escalante reviewed the various alternative invasion strategies in
detail and even drew a campaign map to illustrate them - the only one concerning
the Enterprise of England to survive (see Plate 25). First (on the left of the map)
he noted that a fleet from Lisbon might undertake a daring voyage through the
North Atlantic directly to Scotland, where it would regroup before launching its
main attack (‘The seas are high and dangerous,’ Escalante warned, ‘but through
Jesus Christ crucified everything is possible’). An attack into the Irish Sea might
offer a second potential strategy although the Royal Navy, whose forces (labelled
‘the enemy’) appear in the map at the entrance to the English Channel, made this
a high-risk operation too. No less dangerous would be a surprise attack from
Flanders to Dover, and on to London (defended by ‘E Greet Tuura’ [The Great
Tower]). Escalante therefore suggested a combination of the two distinct strategies
advanced by Santa Cruz and Parma. A Grand Fleet of 120 galleons, galleasses,
galleys, merchantmen and pinnaces, together with an army of 30,000 infantry and
2,000 cavalry, should be concentrated in Lisbon and launched against either
Waterford in Ireland or Milford Haven in Wales. At the same time the Army of
Flanders should be reinforced, first to tie down the English expeditionary force in
Holland, and then to cross the Channel in small ships in preparation for a surprise
march on London while Elizabeth’s forces dealt with the distant bridgehead
established by the Armada.
This ingenious scheme, backed up by a wealth of detail on the political and
physical geography of the British Isles, clearly convinced Don Juan de Zuniga,
because his own letter of advice to the king largely reiterated the plan proposed
by Escalante. Zuniga merely added the observation that, since Spain would gain
no advantage from the direct annexation of England (‘because of the cost of
defending it’), the newly conquered realm should be bestowed upon a friendly
Catholic ruler. He suggested Mary Stuart — but recommended that she should
marry a dependable Catholic prince, such as Parma.^'^
The king added little to these suggestions when on 26 July 1586 he sent a
‘masterplan’ to both Brussels and Lisbon commanding the concentration of forces
for a dual assault on the Tudor state. Although this document has unfortunately
The Formation of Grand Strategy
Plate 25 Bernardino de Escalante’s map of how to invade England. The only surviving ‘campaign map’ for the
Enterprise of England was drawn up in June 1586 by the priest and former soldier Bernardino de Escalante. He
used it to illustrate the various possible invasion strategies discussed in a memorial he sent to Court; dismissing
expeditions via either Scotland or the Irish Sea, Escalante favoured a landing in southern Ireland to draw off the
Royal Navy while Philip’s troops in the Netherlands made a surprise attack in Kent and marched on London,
defended only by ‘E Greet Tuura’ (which Escalante remembered only imperfectly from his brief sojourn in
England during the 1550s).
not so far come to light, its contents can be deduced from subsequent correspondence
between Brussels, Madrid, Lisbon and Rome.^^ A formidable Armada would
sail from Lisbon in the summer of 1587 - one year later - carrying all available
troops together with most of the equipment (above all a powerful siege train)
needed for the land campaign, directly to Ireland. There it would put ashore
assault troops and secure a beachhead (probably at Waterford), thus drawing off
Elizabeth’s naval forces and neutralizing their potential for resistance when, after
some two months, the Armada suddenly left Ireland and made for the Channel. At
that point, and not before, the main invasion force of 30,000 veterans from the
Army of Flanders would embark on its secretly assembled flotilla of small ships
and, under Parma’s personal direction, leave the Netherlands for the coast of Kent
while the Grand Fleet cruised off the North Foreland and secured local command
i88
of the sea. Parma’s men, together with reinforcements and the siege train from the
fleet, would then land near Margate, make a dash for London and seize the city —
preferably with Elizabeth and her ministers still in it.^^
One wonders whether Philip and Zuniga realized the full implications of their
ambitious plan. In retrospect, Santa Cruz’s proposal contained much merit. The
events of 1588 proved that, once they got their Armada to sea, the Spaniards
experienced little difficulty in moving 60,000 tons of shipping from one end of
the Channel to the other, despite repeated assaults upon it. And the Kinsale
landing of 1601 (p. 279 below) showed that they could secure and fortify a
beachhead in southern Ireland. Likewise, Parma’s concept of a surprise landing in
Kent had much to recommend it: time and again, his troops had shown their
mettle under his leadership, and the largely untrained English forces, taken by
surprise, would probably have failed to withstand the Army of Flanders once it
got ashore. The Armada’s undoing ultimately arose from the decision to unite the
fleet from Spain with the army from the Netherlands as an essential prelude to
launching the invasion.
Why did they do it? Zuniga had played an outstanding role in coordinating the
naval campaigns of the Mediterranean for almost twenty years, and had been
closely involved in the abortive plans to invade England a decade before. Philip,
for his part, had also participated in planning many victorious campaigns in the
past, most notably the conquest of Portugal and the Azores between 1580 and
1583, and had seen active service in the campaigns of 1557 and 1558. He also
possessed direct experience of the route his fleet would follow: in July 1554 he had
sailed from Corunna to Southampton, his journey taking just one week, and five
years later he had sailed back relatively easily from Flushing to Santander. But
both men remained essentially armchair strategists: technical, tactical and operational
considerations all remained a closed book to them. Moreover, as usual,
Philip refused to move closer to the action: he ignored suggestions that he should
return to Lisbon in order to supervise the assembly of the fleet in person, so it took
at least a week before Santa Cruz received a solution to each problem referred to
the king, and between two and three weeks in Parma’s case. More serious, Philip
normally remained ignorant of the problems that his commanders chose not to
refer to him, or referred to him late. Worse still, he declined to brief either of them
properly: both received the masterplan of July 1586 by mail (though Parma’s copy
went with the same messenger, Piatti, who had brought the prince’s own suggestions
to Court). Neither could thus oblige Philip to explain precisely how two
large and totally independent forces, with operational bases separated by over a
1,000 kilometres of ocean, could attain the accuracy of time and place necessary
to accomplish their junction. Finally, both Zuniga and Granvelle, the only
ministers in Madrid who possessed the authority and the knowledge to raise
objections, died in the autumn of 1586, so no one could impress upon the
king that there should be a ‘fall-back strategy’ in case joining forces proved
impossible.
The Formation of Grand Strategy 189
For the time being, however, Spanish public opinion seems to have become
unanimous that invading England represented the only sure way to preserve the
security of Spain, the Netherlands and the Americas. After hearing of Drake’s
sack of Santo Domingo, the president of the council of the Indies argued that only
a direct strike on England would safeguard the Americas; and even the prudent
duke of Medina Sidonia, when asked his opinion on mobilizing a High Seas fleet,
urged ‘that this should be set in hand at once, and in earnest, and let it be
understood that it will not suffice simply to oppose what the English send: [the
fleet} will need to go into the Channel’. The duke also recommended that ‘in all
parts — in Italy, as in Vizcaya, Guipuzcoa, Portugal and Andalusia — preparations
and activity should be undertaken, because it will become known in England
and will make them draw in their horns’.^^ The king entirely agreed: a stream of
commands flowed from his desk to set in motion the plan adopted in July 1586.
Orders went out for the new defensive squadrons raised in northern Spain to sail
to Lisbon, for troops to be raised all over Spain to man the new fleet, and for
Naples and Sicily to send soldiers both by land along the Spanish Road to join
Parma and by sea to join Santa Cruz.^** To transport the latter, and to convey
stocks of artillery and munitions to Lisbon, Philip also commanded the embargo
of suitable merchant ships and the addition of sundry galleys and four heavily
gunned galleasses from Naples to serve as escorts.
With rare single-mindedness, the king now gave the Enterprise of England his
undivided attention. On the one hand he cancelled or forbade other ventures that
might reduce available resources. In 1586 he rejected a plan submitted by the
council of the Indies (in the wake of the devastation caused by Drake’s raid) to
improve the defences of the Caribbean: ‘No one regrets the damage and no one
desires a remedy more than I do, if only we had a way to execute it as we wish,
he informed the council, ‘but your plan presents a lot of problems, and the biggest
one is the lack of money with which to pay for it all’. In 1588 Philip likewise
turned down the request of his viceroy of India for the dispatch of ‘more troops,
ships and munitions than normally leave each year’ in order to attack the sultan
of Acheh, because ‘the large number of ships of all sorts, troops, munitions and
military equipment’ assembled for the Armada ‘consume so much that it was not
in any way possible (even though we have tried very hard) to send more than five
ships’ to Goa. He also vetoed a proposal to construct a fortress at Mombasa in East
Africa, once more in order to avoid diverting resources required for the Enterprise
of England, and rejected a request from the Spanish colonists of the Philippines to
launch an invasion of China.^^ On the other hand he strengthened economic
sanctions against his European enemies. In May 1586 he prohibited all trade from
England to Spain: English goods arriving even on neutral shipping would now be
regarded as contraband. In July he extended the measure to Portugal.” In January
1587 he ordered a new embargo of all shipping from the Netherlands, to be
followed by a detailed search to ascertain if any came from the rebellious provinces;
in March he forbade the import of Dutch goods aboard Dutch ships, and in
August aboard neutral ships as well.^"^
The ‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y—88
190 The Formation of Grand Strategy
The king also continued to implement his Grand Strategy in non-military
ways. In September 1586 he approved the support offered by Don Bernardino de
Mendoza, now his ambassador in Paris, to Catholic conspirators led by Anthony
Babington who intended not only to murder Elizabeth and replace her with Mary
Stuart but also to kill or capture her leading councillors — Burghley, Walsingham,
Hunsdon, Knollys and Beale (although, interestingly enough, Philip wanted
Burghley to be spared). The king promised to ‘send assistance, both from Flanders
and from here in Spain ... as soon as news arrives that the principal deed that
Babington and his friends wished to undertake in England had been carried out’.
He feared that the involvement of so many people might compromise the venture
but hoped that ‘God would be pleased to permit what they plan . . . [since] the
time has perhaps arrived when He will advance His cause’. The king ordered
Mendoza to persevere, albeit with a warning that less information should be
committed to paper.” In fact Walsingham already knew all about the plan and,
as soon as he had sufficient evidence to incriminate all the participants (especially
Mary), Babington and the rest were arrested, tortured and executed, while plans
were laid to put Mary on trial for treason.
Philip’s diplomats elsewhere proved more successful. In May 1587, after prolonged
negotiations, his ambassador to the Catholic Swiss cantons concluded a
treaty which (in return for some pensions and customs concessions) guaranteed the
security of Franche-Comte and the duchy of Milan, and secured the right of
Spanish troops to pass through the cantons from Italy to Germany and the
Netherlands. In Rome, Olivares worked tirelessly not only to persuade the pope
to part with i million ducats towards the costs of the conquest, but also to grant
Philip the right to choose the next ruler of England. Both points provoked
tortuous and acrimonious negotiations. On the question of finance, discussions
focused not only on the total amount payable by the pope, but also on the event
that would trigger the transfer of funds (the departure of the Armada from Lisbon,
or the landing of the invasion force on English soil?), and on the risk that, if Sixtus
died unexpectedly, his successor might refuse to honour the commitment. To
secure the last point, in November 1586 the king insisted that all the cardinals
must forthwith swear that, should they be elected pope in the event of Sixtus’s
death, they would honour his promise to pay. The king acknowledged the risk
that this involved:
Even though my desire to arrange this may lead to a breach of secrecy, because
it may require a meeting of the College of Cardinals, nonetheless it is a point
of such importance that it should not be forgotten. Because if we are not
protected, we may find ourselves deceived.
Shortly after this, Olivares secured a promise that i million ducats would be paid
as soon as proof arrived that Spanish forces had landed in England.” He also
reached a temporary solution to the ‘investiture’ problem: Mary Stuart would be
placed on the English throne and Philip would then - and only then - announce
The‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y—88 191
her successor. The pope promised in advance to accept without reservation the
king’s choice.^*
However, Mary Stuart’s execution on a charge of treason by her English captors
in February 1587 nullified this arrangement. At first, armed with family trees and
dynastic treatises, Philip now set out to prove that he was himself heir presumptive
to the English throne by virtue of his descent from the house of Lancaster. In
the end his advisers dissuaded him from making this claim public, on the grounds
that it would alarm all — even his allies — who feared any increase in Habsburg
power: instead, once more after long and bitter argument, the pope agreed that
after the successful invasion of England Philip would nominate, subject to papal
approval and investiture, a ruler pledged to restore and uphold the Catholic faith
there (the king apparently intended to ‘invest’ his daughter Isabella, after she had
married one of her Austrian cousins).Until then the post-conquest administration
would be entrusted to William Allen, superior of the English College at
Douai, assisted by members of various religious orders aboard the Armada and
with Parma’s army, and by local Catholics. Together they would superintend the
restoration to the church of all lands and rights lost at the Reformation.
In other ways, the elimination of Mary Stuart simplified matters for Philip.
Above all, the French Catholics reacted violently to the news (she was, after all, a
dowager queen of France, sister-in-law of Henry III and cousin of the duke of
Guise). In Rouen, rioters seized English ships and goods; in Paris, outraged clerics
delivered inflammatory sermons that called for revenge, and exhibited pictures
outside their churches that luridly portrayed the atrocities committed against
English Catholics by the Elizabethan regime.'*^ Everywhere Philip’s agents sought
to exploit the ‘judicial murder’ of an anointed queen (who had not even been
Elizabeth’s subject) in order to justify the king’s plans to overthrow the ‘English
Jezebel’.
Strangely enough, they failed only in Scotland, thanks largely to Mary’s
‘phantom will’. In May 1586 the queen of Scots had written to Don Bernardino
de Mendoza, that she intended to ‘cede and grant by Will my right to the
succession of this crown [of England] to the king, your master’. Almost certainly,
she never executed such a deed, although Philip had the archives of Rome, Paris
and Simancas ransacked to find some trace of it. Six months later, Mary informed
the pope that she also wished to leave to Philip ‘all the rights and interests I may
have in the government of the kingdom of Scotland, since my son remains
obstinately outside the [Catholic] church’. A copy of this letter likewise reached
the king, who annotated it. After Mary’s death he emphasized the ‘affinity’ that
linked his family and hers (Mary had been Philip’s sister-in-law and a playmate of
his late wife, Elisabeth de Valois), and even began to pay her legacies from his own
funds. Elizabeth’s agents, however, intercepted Mary’s letters and sent copies of
the relevant items to her son and successor, James VI. The young king, realizing
that his mother planned to deprive him of the Scottish throne as well as of his
expectation of the English succession, made clear his support for Elizabeth."*^ Any
residual temptation to side with Philip evaporated when news leaked out of
192
Spain’s support for various plots by Scottish Catholics to overthrow James.Even
the execution of his mother scarcely shook James’s loyalty to Elizabeth: although
he launched a torrent of protests, he continued to pocket his annual English
subsidy of £4,000 (about 16,000 ducats), and he imprisoned a Spanish envoy sent
to woo him. The loyalty of some of James’s subjects seemed less sure: in spring
1588 the Catholic Lord Maxwell began a rebellion in south-west Scotland with
the declared intention of providing the Spaniards with a base; and in August
alarming rumours reached York that some Scottish border lords ‘have said openly
[that} so soune as they shall here that the Spaniardes be landed in anie parte of
Scotland, they will ryde straight into England, though the kinge saye no’.^^
Elizabeth found it prudent to maintain an army of 6,000 foot and 400 horse on
the Scottish border for almost a year.^^
The queen took her revenge in Istanbul, capital of the Ottoman empire. She
made use of every opportunity to curry favour with the sultan - for example by
repatriating a hundred Turkish galley slaves freed by Francis Drake during his
West Indies raid — and tried to persuade him to wage war on Spain again.
Although she failed, her representative in Istanbul did persuade the Turks that
they had nothing to gain from renewing the truce with Spain: Philip’s agents
went home empty-handed in April 1587. The government in Madrid therefore
remained fearful that the sultan might attack a Christian base in the western
Mediterranean as rumours (all later proved false) spread that he had made peace
with the Persians (September 1587), that he had promised Elizabeth that he
would attack Spain if Philip attacked England (January 1588), and that his fleet
had set forth for a campaign in the Mediterranean (June 1588).'^^
The centre of Philip’s diplomatic energies nevertheless remained France, and
here he triumphed. Following the treaty of Nemours in March 1585 (p. 172
above), Henry III permitted the Catholic League to take possession of several
strategic towns and in April 1587 Guise’s cousin, the duke of Aumale, seized
three cities in Picardy, near the frontier with the Netherlands and also close to the
Channel."*^ These successes, liberally financed by Spanish subsidies, provided a
‘shield’ of friendly forces that would prevent Henry from sending aid either to
Elizabeth or to the Dutch. An attempt to secure control of a deep-water harbour
close to England failed, however. A spy in Guise’s household overheard a conversation
about the need ‘for some way to capture the town of Boulogne, which was
said to be necessary for them to receive and shelter the fleet they expected from
Spain’ and warned the town’s governor. Aumale’s attempt to seize the town
therefore failed; instead Elizabeth sent Admiral Howard there with a naval
squadron as a token of her support.
Naturally, Philip’s military, naval, economic and diplomatic activities all over
western Europe did not go unnoticed. Foreign envoys at Madrid filled their
dispatches with news of them; Elizabeth’s spies in Italy, Spain and Portugal
picked up much of the detail; members of the papal Curia seem to have talked of
little else. Most of the queen’s advisers now agreed that England formed the most
likely target and so, besides intensifying her diplomatic efforts in Edinburgh and
The Formation of Grand Strategy The ‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y—88 193
Istanbul, Elizabeth took a number of more practical steps to thwart Philip’s plans.
Between 1585 and 1588, the Navy Board built or purchased sixteen new vessels
and repaired the rest, until ‘there is never a one of them that knows what a leak
means’; the Privy Council also ordered the embargo of all ships in English ports
and, from these, special commissioners chose 64 armed merchantmen, 33 supply
vessels and 43 private pinnaces to serve with the queen’s ships."^^ At the same time,
repairs to the fortifications along the south coast resumed; and orders went out to
disarm known Catholics.^'* More assertively, at the request of the French Protestants
the queen also provided money to raise troops in Germany for an invasion of
the Guise heartland. Champagne and Lorraine. All through the spring of 1587
this threat detained the field army of the duke of Guise, and from September
also a detachment of the Army of Flanders, in the east of France. Admittedly,
the 11,000 German mercenaries who eventually crossed the Rhine met with
ignominious defeat, but their menace prevented Guise from making another
effort to gain Boulogne — a significant failure from Philip’s point of view, for
had his Armada been able to wait there (rather than off Calais) in 1588, while
Parma embarked his army, the enterprise might have taken a very different
51 course.
Elizabeth’s other ‘preventive measure’ proved equally effective: at the queen’s
command. Sir Francis Drake began to prepare a new naval expedition. In November
1586 he invited citizens of the Dutch Republic ‘to provide cash and credit for
the preparation and maintenance of 25 warships’ which he intended ‘to employ in
a voyage to assist the king of Portugal, Dom Antonio, or on some other service’.
In December he hinted that the fleet might sail to the Caribbean again, and
promised to return 70 per cent of all ‘prizes and conquests’ to his backers. But late
in March 1587 the queen revealed the ‘other service’: in order to impede the
junction of the forces for the Armada coming to Lisbon from Italy and Andalusia,
she instructed Drake to sail into any port containing Philip’s ships and destroy
them, as well as any naval stores he could find. Although shortly afterwards,
no doubt influenced by the moderate voices among her councillors, she changed
her mind and authorized Drake only to attack Philip’s shipping on the High
Seas, his fleet of twenty-three ships - six of them powerful galleons from the
Royal Navy — had already left. On 29 April they entered the harbour of Cadiz by
surprise and captured or destroyed some twenty-four Spanish vessels, some of
them large, together with considerable quantities of food and stores destined for
the Armada.
It remained a close-run affair, however, because Philip had just acquired an
unimpeachable source of information concerning Elizabeth’s plans. In January
1587 Sir Edward Stafford, the English ambassador in Paris, declared himself ready
to serve Spain in any way possible (short of encompassing the queen’s death), and
for the next eighteen months he proved as good as his word. He sent back to his
own government a constant stream of information suggesting that Philip harboured
only pacific intentions against England and that Elizabeth could safely
reduce her spending on defence; and he repeatedly revealed confidential
194 The Formation of Grand Strategy
information received from England to the Spanish ambassador in Paris (see pp.
221—3 below). Thus, as soon as he became aware of the plan to send Drake’s fleet
against Spain, Stafford told Mendoza; more significant, as soon as he ascertained
(in spite of all attempts by the English government to keep it secret) Drake’s
intended destination, he also told Mendoza. Only distance prevented Stafford’s
warning from arriving at the Court of Spain until the day after Drake struck
Cadiz: although the courier took only eleven days to ride from Paris to Madrid, he
arrived on 30 April, one day after Drake. Had he arrived sooner, or had Drake
been delayed a few days more by adverse winds, thanks to Stafford’s treachery his
reception might have been very different.
Instead, having ‘singed the king of Spain’s beard’, Drake lurked off Cape St
Vincent for a month, interdicting all movement by sea between the Mediterranean
and Andalusia, as well as between Andalusia and Lisbon.Then he sailed
away to the Azores in order to intercept (as Stafford had also warned) the returning
fleets from America and India. His exploits there — capturing the rich East India
carrack Sdo Felipe in June, burning some settlements on the islands of Cuervo and
Flores in July - caused panic throughout the Iberian peninsula. All summer long,
ambassadors at the Court of Spain filled their reports with rumours about new
deeds planned or executed by ‘el Draque’.
Philip could not decide what to do next. In June he ordered the large squadron
of ships bringing munitions from Italy, which had taken refuge from Drake in the
ports of Andalusia, to sail to Lisbon guarded by galleys and the escort galleons of
the Indies fleet, there to join forces with the vessels assembled by the marquis of
Santa Cruz; Santa Cruz was ordered to await their arrival before sailing to the
Azores in pursuit of Drake. But contrary winds confined the Andalusian fleet to
harbour and on 5 July Santa Cruz asked permission to sail with only the ships in
Lisbon; the king agreed on the loth, and also sent orders to Andalusia that
although most of the ships there should leave for Lisbon as soon as they could, the
Indies escorts should go straight to the Azores. Santa Cruz received his instructions
on the 15th and set sail that night. The commander of the Andalusian
squadron, Don Martin de Padilla, did not receive his orders until the 20th because
he and his entire fleet had already left for Lisbon, but he then at once ordered the
Indies escorts to set course for the Azores. Meanwhile, in the Escorial, the king
received news that more English raiders lurked off the Iberian coast and became
fearful that the Indies escorts, if they travelled alone, might be intercepted and
overwhelmed; on 14 July he therefore ordered them to remain with Padilla. This
order reached its destination somewhat later on the 20th, and the ships were
accordingly recalled. Next, news reached the king that a fleet of Barbary corsairs
had been sighted passing through the straits of Gibraltar, and he feared it might
attack Cadiz in the absence of the galleys; so on 20 July Philip ordered Padilla to
return to Cadiz as soon as he had escorted the transports to Lisbon. Finally on 30
July, after receiving further alarming reports about the corsairs’ strength and
intentions, the king commanded the galleys to return to Cadiz from wherever
they might be. As it happened, Padilla had reached Lisbon on 4 August and
received the order there four days later. He left that same night.”
The ‘Enterprise of England’, iy8^—88 195
This amazing chapter of contradictions shows Philip’s strategic style at its
worst. Convinced that he alone had ‘complete information on the present state
of affairs in all areas’ (p. 71 above), the king could not resist attempting to
micromanage operations. The more reality diverged from his plan, the more
things he saw that needed to be changed. No doubt his ill-health in the spring
of 1587, which seriously delayed the transaction of business (p. 44 above),
complicated matters, but gradually Philip recognized that the entire Enterprise of
England required rethinking. On the tactical level, since a state of war now clearly
existed with Elizabeth, he decreed that English seamen captured by his ships
should no longer be treated as pirates (until this point their captains, masters and
pilots had been beheaded, and their crews sent to the galleys).On the strategic
level, some at Court began to question the wisdom of a direct amphibious assault
on an enemy who seemed so powerful by sea; but the government did not agree.
In the words of Philip’s new foreign policy adviser, Don Juan de Idiaquez, ‘with
the English established in Holland and Zealand, together with their infestation of
the Americas and the High Seas, it seems that defensive measures cannot deal
with everything. Rather, it obliges us to put their house to the torch’ in order to
force them to withdraw from ‘the Netherlands, that voracious monster which
gobbles up the troops and treasure of Spain’.” Meanwhile a prominent councillor
of War delivered a similarly belligerent message to the papal nuncio in Madrid:
the ‘Enterprise of England’, he asserted, remained essential to assure the safety of
the fleets sailing between Spain and the Americas, ‘and also for [the king’s}
reputation, to avoid being subjected every day to similar accidents like [the Cadiz
raid}’.^^ But how best could that be achieved? Spain had clearly forfeited the
element of surprise: surely, the king reasoned, Elizabeth must now expect an
imminent invasion. So he made two important changes to the strategy laid down
in July 1586. First he resolved to combine all the shipping at his disposal — Santa
Cruz’s galleons (whenever they returned from the Azores), the powerful fleet from
Andalusia, and the various squadrons created to defend Spain’s northern coasts —
in a single Grand Fleet which would either overwhelm or drive off all opposition;
second he ordered it to sail, not to Ireland, but directly to the Channel in order to
escort Parma’s invasion army across to the coast of Kent. The former merely
represented a reversion to the traditional Habsburg strategy of attacking in
overwhelming strength; the latter introduced a critical new dimension.
Ever since receiving his copy of the masterplan, Parma had repeatedly expressed
doubts in his letters to the king concerning the need for a fleet from Spain and
pressed for details both on its itinerary and on its proposed junction with his
forces. In February 1587 Philip at last addressed these concerns (in a remarkably
convoluted sentence), but still offered no solutions:
I note what you say about the need to make the Channel safe, because of the risk
of sending a fleet like ours to sail between France and England at the appointed
time (which often sees very bad weather in the Channel) without having a safe
port in either, nor in Flanders (except for Dunkirk, which apart from being the
only one available is not suitable for ships of large draught), which would force
The Formation of Grand Strategy
it to face the weather; leaving aside the general advantages, and the more
detailed knowledge of those coasts, that the enemy fleet will have. All these are
points of substance, and I am looking into them.^*^
Either his illness in the spring, or the trauma of Drake’s raid, seems to have
prevented further consideration of these ‘points of substance’. Instead, in June
1587, the king suddenly decided to revert to Parma’s original plan of April 1586
- a surprise attack - informing his nephew that:
Because the Armada here must first deal with meeting and protecting the fleets
coming from the Americas, I do not think it will be possible for it to reach the
Channel before your own crossing. This should not matter, but rather conforms
with what is already arranged, because neither the person you sent here
[Giovanni Battista Piatti}, nor you after his return, asked for the Armada to
come before, but only after . . . The best course seems to me that, almost at the
same time, or as close to it as possible, we attack in three directions: an invasion
by you and your forces; a diversion via Scotland, thanks to the men and money
that the Catholics of that kingdom have requested; and an attack by this
Armada on the Isle of Wight or Southampton.
Parma responded with his usual firmness that this new strategy would not work
either. Now that the element of secrecy had been lost, he declared, he lacked
sufficient warships to defend his transports: he could never be certain of the
whereabouts of the English fleet; although an attack by the Armada on the Isle of
Wight would draw off some of the queen’s warships it would certainly not tie
down all of them; and, given the need to concentrate all his shipping at one point
for the embarkation process, Elizabeth’s spies would be able to guess in advance
the exact time of the invasion.
This hard-hitting critique, received at Court in late August, seems to have
impressed the king because on 4 September he signed detailed instructions for
both Santa Cruz and Parma to follow a totally - fatally - different strategy. The
idea of invading Ireland or the Isle of Wight now disappeared. Instead,
With all his forces and fleet, the marquis will sail in the name of God straight
to the English Channel and go along it until you have anchored off Margate
head, having first warned the duke of Parma of your approach. The said duke,
according to the orders he has received, on seeing the passage thus made safe by
the Armada either being off the said headland or else cruising in the mouth of
the Thames (if time allows), will immediately send across the army he has
prepared in small boats, of which (for transit alone) he has plenty.
The king insisted that, until Parma and his men had made their crossing, the
Armada ‘should do nothing except make safe the passage, and defeat any enemy
ships that might come out to prevent this’. He also confidently asserted that ‘from
196 197
Margate, you can prevent any junction between enemy warships in the Thames
and the eastern ports, with those in the south and west, so that the enemy will not
be able to concentrate a fleet which would dare to come out and challenge ours’.
Parma, for his part, having received advance warning of Santa Cruz’s approach,
should ‘be so well prepared that, when you see the Narrow Seas thus secured, with
the Armada arriving off the said headland [Margate] . . . , you will immediately
send the whole army over in the boats you have prepared’. Philip expressly forbade
Parma to set out from the Flemish coast until the fleet arrived.Once again, the
king sent both sets of detailed and binding instructions by courier, rather than
with a trusted messenger able to brief the two theatre commanders in more detail
on their role, to answer their questions and to provide feedback on the state of
their readiness and morale.
Shortly before receiving these orders, however, Parma suddenly (and, in hindsight,
inexplicably) became more optimistic. He now suggested to the king that,
after all, if Santa Cruz could get his Armada as far as the Channel approaches it
might draw the Royal Navy down to Plymouth, creating a window of opportunity
for him to launch a surprise attack on the coast of Kent just as he had originally
planned; he also indicated that he would have everything entirely ready for the
crossing by early December. The king was overjoyed by this news and on the 30th
wrote to override the strict prohibition on independent action in his recent
instructions, authorizing Parma to invade alone as soon as it seemed safe to do so
‘without waiting for the Armada, because in this case the diversion it will cause
[by its approach] will suffice to cover your crossing, which is our principal end’.
Santa Cruz, he promised, would sail almost immediately to provide support and
reinforcements.^^ Unknown to Philip, however, the marquis had limped back to
Lisbon the previous day with his ships severely damaged by storms, his crews
depleted by disease, and his provisions almost all consumed by the ten-week
operation. Santa Cruz deemed another sortie by the Armada to be out of the
question for the time being.
Far away in the Escorial, Philip simply refused to believe this. Convinced that
Santa Cruz exaggerated his problems, the king continued to urge Parma in the
strongest possible terms to cross to England at once, if he could, recklessly (and
totally improperly) promising that the Armada would be ready to sail within a
few days. At the same time he directed a stream of rebukes and exhortations to
Santa Cruz: ‘There is no more time to waste in requests and replies,’ he informed
the marquis curtly; ‘just get on with the job and see if you cannot advance the
agreed departure date [25 October] by a few days’. As the deadline approached,
with little sign of progress, Philip raged impotently that ‘so much time has been
lost already that every further hour of delay causes me more grief than you can
imagine. And so I charge and command you most strictly to leave before the
end of the month.’ The Venetian ambassador at Court, Hieronimo Lippomano,
obtained a copy of Santa Cruz’s measured refutation of one of these unrealistic
tirades and paused to speculate on why the king should refuse to believe his most
experienced admiral, while noting ‘how difficult it is for him to change plans.
The ‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y—88
198
once he has decided on something’. He correctly highlighted two factors; Philip’s
knowledge of international affairs led him to see operations in each theatre in a
wider context, increasing his anxiety to act before the favourable situation
changed; and his supreme confidence ‘in the course of his good fortune’, which led
him to assume that God would reward his efforts if he performed his own part to
the full.^^
Meanwhile, in the Netherlands, just possibly exploiting the knowledge that his
co-commander was still not prepared, Parma boasted to the king on 14 November
that:
Everything here will be ready and in being by the 20th., and ... I am entirely
resolved, in the name of God and with His holy assistance, to put to sea myself
on the 25th .. . And unless we hear that there is an [enemy] fleet in the
Channel that might prevent us from crossing, and if God is pleased to bring us
safely to land and favour us ... I hope we shall be able to give a good account
of ourselves to Your Majesty.
Now the king panicked lest Parma should undertake his solo venture and then
become stranded without the fleet from Spain. He therefore fired another barrage
of letters urging Santa Cruz to put to sea even if he could lead only 48 seaworthy
ships (10 December), and then even if he had only 35 (21 December). The king
did not give up until January, when the marquis pointed out that intelligence
received from his spies in England clearly showed that Parma and all his forces
remained in Flanders.
After this interlude of order, counter-order and disorder which confused everyone
— foreign ambassadors and spies as well as the king s own ministers (see
Chapter 7 below) - the king returned to inflexibility. Early in 1588, despite
strident objections from Bernardino de Escalante and others about the danger,
Philip reiterated the 4 September plan with its fatal requirement that the invasion
could take place only after the two commanders had linked up in the Narrow
Seas; Parma must not stir until the fleet from Spain arrived off Margate; the
Armada should attempt nothing against England until it had ‘joined hands’ with
Parma.
It is easy to see why Philip felt so desperate. The cost of his armed forces placed
a tremendous strain on his finances: the Armada cost 30,000 ducats a day, and
Parma’s army a further 15,000.^^ Whereas a few years before he had been able to
plan multimillion-ducat budgets two years in advance, and possessed a substantial
cash reserve (p. 170 above), by March 1588 the king had to sell his late wife s
jewels in order to raise funds and throughout the year he asked for, and received,
weekly statements of the amount of money in the treasury and personally determined
which obligations should be met and which must wait (Plate 26). In April
1588 his secretary of state, trying to maintain the favourable international situation,
accused the president of the council of Finance of sabotaging the entire
operation because he had failed to send enough money to Lisbon to allow the
The Formation of Grand Strategy
t
Sean
enMiimarma / disfltsOSi^^^OitaMum
^yiueeaAc&ateaa ^i^^erftk/ieaSeSkeeSli&m.
l"e♦mISxtma ounaM
euneSeiCm
If fit9%^^jaa'^aeuamimi
^ C_>». i9euam Jemaao.pnf*’^
199
Plate 26 A ‘Relacion de
sabado’, 1589, annotated
by Philip II. The cost of
the Armada placed such
a strain on the royal
treasury that in 1588
Philip called for
statements every
Saturday stating the
amount of cash in hand
and the outstanding
obligations that needed
to the met. All sums
were given in maravedis,
a small unit of account
which made the totals
seem large, but with 400
maravedis to the ducat
the king normally had
only 20,000 ducats at his
disposal (less than the
cost of the Armada for
one day). Small wonder
that he struggled to find
ways of delaying some
payments.
Armada to sail. In June Philip told his councillors that ‘finding money is so
important that all of us must concentrate only on that and on nothing else,
because whatever victories we may win, I do not know what will come of them
(unless God performs a miracle) without money’.Above all, the king feared that
although he had managed to neutralize all his other enemies for the present, the
uniquely favourable international situation might not last: above all, ‘next year we
might find ourselves with a Turkish fleet attacking Italy, should the sultan make
peace with the Persians’, while the French might reconcile their differences and
make peace in order to prevent Spain from annexing England.
In the event, Philip’s diplomatic luck held. At a meeting with the Spanish
ambassador in late April 1588 the duke of Guise, on behalf of the French Catholic
League, agreed to engineer a general rebellion the moment he heard of the
Armada’s departure. The immediate payment of 100,000 ducats to the League’s
leaders clinched the deal. But as time passed, temperatures rose: one of Guise’s
supporters, the archbishop of Lyon, advised the duke to emulate Charles Martel —
who in the eighth century as ‘mayor of the palace’ had seized power from the
impotent Merovingian kings of France and founded his own (Carolingian) dynasty
200
— and depose the last of the Valois/^ The Paris Catholics began to agitate for a
take-over of the city and when, on 12 May 1588, Henry III deployed his Swiss
Guards to preserve order, the entire capital erupted into violence, erecting barricades
against the king’s troops and forcing him to flee. The ‘Day of the Barricades’
made Guise the master of Paris and shortly afterwards he became ‘lieutenantgeneral
of the kingdom’; from Madrid, the French envoy warned his master that
‘The corruption of these times and Spanish money will make a mark on the
subjects of Your Majesty that will not easily be effaced, and a wound in your
kingdom that will not heal’. Philip had in fact intended that Guise should capture
Henry and force him to make concessions (including free access to ports like
Boulogne and Calais); but even without that crowning achievement the towns
of Picardy, as well as Paris, remained under League control. As the Armada
approached the Channel, the French economy ground to a halt: ‘I never did see,
nor no man hath seen it, since France was France, that ever money was impossible
to be gotten as it is here now among all sorts, for all traffick ceaseth and for money
there is none to be seen’. Neither Henry III nor the French Protestants could now
save Elizabeth.
Philip’s diplomacy also — rather more surprisingly — divided England from her
Dutch ally. The king pursued three approaches to this end. First, he strove to
isolate the Dutch diplomatically in order to limit their capacity to threaten the
Spanish Netherlands once Parma had left for England, and in this he seems to have
achieved total success: a Dutch assessment in August 1587 lamented: ‘We have no
league or alliance with other Protestant princes; rather, we alienate them daily’.^^
Second, Elizabeth herself indicated a willingness to discuss terms for the withdrawal
of her forces from the Netherlands, provided the initiative could seem to
come from Spain (in order to save face with her Dutch allies). Third, and
apparently independently. King Frederick of Denmark offered his services as a
mediator between Philip and his northern enemies. Philip authorized Parma to
explore both of these peace initiatives, since they might reduce (even temporarily)
English aid to the Dutch and perhaps secure some restitution for goods seized
by English privateers on the High Seas and in the Americas - but without either
reducing the military pressure on the Dutch, or ruling out the possibility of a
direct assault on England. Early in 1587 Dutch troops captured an envoy sent by
Parma to Denmark, bearing full details of his talks with Elizabeth’s ministers.
This forced the queen to show her hand and she now announced her intention of
beginning formal talks with Spain and begged the Dutch to join in.^^ Her appeal
divided the Republic. The inland provinces which bore the brunt of the war
against Spain — and even some towns in Holland — favoured discussions, but the
States-General held firm and refused to send delegates to the peace talks.The
queen persisted, however, and in February 1588 her commissioners arrived in
Flanders with authority to negotiate a peace with Spain on two conditions:
toleration for Protestants in the Netherlands and withdrawal of all foreign troops.
Needless to say, Philip had no intention of making these concessions, but he
instructed Parma to pretend that they might form a basis for discussion, in order
The Formation of Grand Strategy The ‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y—88 201
to divide the Dutch further and to confuse Elizabeth. Despite the death of
Frederick of Denmark, formal talks began at Bourbourg (near Dunkirk) in May.
Parma, under orders to keep the talks going at all costs (even though he knew they
would lead nowhere), exploited to the full the divisions among the English
commissioners, even encouraging one of them. Sir James Croft (a long-time
Spanish pensioner and informant), to break ranks and discuss terms for a complete
English withdrawal from the Netherlands.^ Once more, Spanish propaganda
made much political capital out of ‘perfidious Albion’ with the already suspicious
Dutch. It is true that Elizabeth also gained something from the talks (above all an
observation post in Flanders from which to monitor Parma’s military preparations),
but she lost far more by forfeiting the trust of the Dutch.
By July 1588, as the Armada finally prepared to sail to the Channel, Philip had
orchestrated a major diplomatic triumph. In the admiring words of the imperial
ambassador:
At the moment, the Catholic King [Philip II} is safe: France cannot threaten
him, and the Turks can do little; neither can the king of Scots, who is offended
at Queen Elizabeth on account of the death of his mother. The one [monarch}
who could have made trouble was the king of Denmark, who has just died, and
his son is young and so has other things to deal with — although this is not true
of the Protestant princes of the Empire, who may incline in favour of the queen
[of England}. At the same time, Spain can be assured that the Swiss cantons
will not move against him; nor will they allow others to do so, since they are
now his allies.
In short, he concluded, no foreign power could now prevent the execution of the
king’s Grand Strategy.
He might have added that the king and his ministers had also done their best
to mobilize public — and divine — support. In Lisbon, the ‘nun of Lisbon’ (reputed
a saint but latet unmasked as a fraud) blessed the Armada as it prepared to leave;
one of the fleet’s commanders informed the pope’s envoy that they sailed ‘in the
confident hope of a miracle’; and Pedro de Ribadeneira, a leading Jesuit, composed
an ‘Exhortation to the soldiers and captains who sail on this campaign to England’
which confidently asserted that: ‘We are not going on a difficult enterprise,
because God our Lord, whose cause and most holy faith we defend, will go ahead,
and with such a Captain we have nothing to fear’.^° In Rome, the pope issued
a special indulgence to all who sailed on the Armada and even to those who
simply prayed for its success, while Cardinal Allen completed two tracts for
circulation among English Catholics: the first, A declaration of the sentence and
deposition of Elizabeth, the usurper and pretensed queen of England, purported to be a
papal bull but in fact merely summarized the second. An admonition to the nobility
and people of England and Ireland, concerning the present wars made for the execution of
His Holiness’ sentence, by the high and mighty King Catholic of Spain, calling on all
Catholics to offer every assistance to the ‘liberators’ when they arrived and to
202
The military strength of Philip II and his enemies,
1587-88
PHILIP II
The Formation of Grand Strategy
Spain, North Africa, Portugal
On the Armada: 19,000 troops
In garrisons: 29,000 troops
Fleets: 130 ships with the Armada at Lisbon, 22 galleys defending the Mediterranean.
Italy
Milan: 2,000 troops
Naples: 3,000 troops and 28 galleys
Siciliy: 2,000 troops and 10 galleys
Overseas
5.000 soldiers in Portuguese Asia
8.000 soldiers in Spanish America
Netherlands
27.000 troops ready to invade England
40.000 troops in garrisons throughout the Netherlands
81 ships and 194 barges for the invasion of England
ENEMIES
England
45.000 troops on land at the peak of the Armada crisis
15.000 men with the Royal Navy
6.000 troops in the Dutch Republic
197 ships scattered along the south coast
Dutch Republic
17,500 troops
67 ships scattered along the Flemish and Frisian coasts
Table 5 By dint of enormous efforts to mobilize all his resources, Philip managed to support
some 135,000 troops in 1588, of whom 19,000 (almost all Spaniards) sailed aboard the Armada
and another 27,000 stood ready for embarkation in Flanders (see Table 6 below). He also
maintained 130 ships in Lisbon, 60 war galleys in the Mediterranean, and a motley flotilla of
ships and barges in the ports of Flanders. His enemies could not match these totals: their forces
were far inferior in both quantity and quality, and they remained dispersed long after it became
clear where Philip intended to strike.
abandon their allegiance to Elizabeth. Allen finished both works in April and sent
them to Antwerp for printing; they would cross to England for distribution with
Parma’s troops. In Madrid, while the population joined in massive religious
processions every Sunday and holiday, and at other times followed a small published
church-by-church guide to gain the Armada indulgence, the king’s printer
brought out a detailed ‘True relation of the Armada’ which listed all the ships, the
guns and the officers aboard, sending copies for translation to Naples, Rome,
Milan, Cologne and Paris. Philip intended the document both to intimidate his
enemies and to impress his allies: all Europe would know that the conquest had
been achieved by Spanish arms and treasure (perhaps rendering more acceptable
The ‘Enterprise of England’, iy8y—88 203
the king’s claim to choose England’s next monarch). And in the Escorial, according
to one source, the entire royal family spent three hours daily in relays before
the Holy Sacrament, praying for the Armada’s success.*^
By the spring of 1588, thanks to his single-minded concentration on the
mobilization of the resources of his entire Monarchy (and of most of his allies),
Philip had managed to assemble 130 ships and 19,000 troops in Lisbon, with 300
more small ships and 27,000 veterans waiting in Elanders. The rest of his empire
boasted impressive defences. At the same time, the strength of his enemies had
been dramatically reduced. The Dutch lacked the forces both by land and sea to
offer effective opposition, and Elizabeth’s forces by land were stretched to the
limit: all her veteran troops remained in the Netherlands and soldiers she could
neither spare nor afford guarded the Scottish frontier in case of an invasion (see
Table 5). Although she eventually divined that Philip’s fleet from Spain would
need to join the Army of Flanders before trying to land, Elizabeth never grasped
until it was too late that they planned to storm ashore in Kent rather than in
Essex. When, on 6 August, the Armada duly anchored off Calais, just 40 kilometres
from Parma’s forces at Dunkirk and within sight of the designated landing
area — having overcome all the problems posed by the Military Revolution,
strategic overstretch, bureaucratic inefficiency, information overload and distance
- Philip’s Grand Strategy seemed on the point of success. The king knew it:
‘Things hang in the balance, and not just these affairs [of northern Europe} but of
all areas,’ he wrote. ‘Please God, let the events up there be for His cause, and may
He assist us as is so necessary.’ After all the crises, he felt confident that ‘nothing
on my part remains to be done’: everything now depended on executing the plan
he had conceived and shaped with such care over the previous three years — and on
a few miracles to which, he felt, his prodigious efforts in God’s cause entitled him.
All he could do now was wait and pray.^^
Part III: The Execution of
Grand Strategy
In 1588, most observers saw the Homeric duel between Philip and Elizabeth in
religious terms: the king’s belief that God would decide its outcome was shared
by his adversaries. Thus in the Netherlands, when the duke of Parma warned
Valentine Dale, an English diplomat, that a single battle lost by his queen would
end the Tudor regime. Dale retorted tartly that one battle rarely sufficed ‘to
conquere a kingdome yn another countrie’, as Parma should know himself, ‘by the
difficulties of the recoverie of that which is the king’s owne by succession and
patrimonie. “Wei”, sayd he [Parma} “that ys yn God’s hand.” “So it is”, quoth 1’.^
By the summer of 1588, Philip had concentrated the formidable military and
naval resources of his Monarchy on achieving his objectives in north-west Europe,
and simultaneously used diplomacy, inducements, economic pressure, deception
and propaganda (the key ingredients of every Grand Strategy) to weaken and
isolate his opponents. Even his enemies believed that the odds overwhelmingly
favoured Spain. Sir Walter Raleigh, discussing the events of 1588 a quarter of a
century later, asked ‘Whether England, without helpe of her fleete, be able to
debarre an enemie from landing’ and concluded ‘I hold that it is unable so to doe’.
He further argued that the troops assembled by the queen in Kent were ‘of no such
force as to encounter an armie like unto that, wherewith it was intended that the
prince of Parma should have landed in England’.^ These impressive achievements,
taken together, should have proved more than adequate to defeat England and end
the Dutch Revolt; but they did not.
The explanation for this failure lies in the execution — as much as in the
formation — of Philip’s strategic goals, and above all in the twin problems of
‘friction’ and ‘chance’ that, according to Carl von Clausewitz’s remarkable study
On war, frequently prevent military and naval plans from being carried out as
intended. According to Clausewitz, writing in the 1820s, friction (a term he
borrowed from physics) encompasses all those ‘factors that distinguish real war
from war on paper’:
Everything in war is very simple, but the simplest thing is difficult. The
difficulties accumulate and end by producing a kind of friction that is
205
2o6 The Execution of Grand Strategy
inconceivable unless one has experienced war . . . Countless minor incidents —
the kind you can never really foresee — combine to lower the general level of
performance, so that one always falls short of the intended goal . . . The military
machine — the army and everything related to it — is basically very simple
and therefore seems easy to manage. But we should bear in mind that none of
its components is of one piece: each part is composed of individuals . . . the
least important of whom may chance to delay things or somehow make them
go wrong.
Earlier on in his work, Clausewitz used another felicitous simile to summarize the
role of chance and contingency in war:
Absolute, so-called mathematical, factors never find a firm basis in military
calculations. From the very start there is an interplay of possibilities, probabilities,
good luck and bad that weaves its way throughout the length and breadth
of the tapestry. In the whole range of human activities, war most closely
resembles a game of cards.^
The same ‘interplay’ dominated military calculations in early modern Europe.
Machiavelli devoted much attention to the influence of ‘Fortune’ on war and
statecraft in The Prtnce\ while according to Count William Louis of Nassau, one of
the king’s leading enemies, ‘The outcome of war depends on chance, just like a
game of dice’."* In the execution of Philip IPs Grand Strategy in 1587-88, friction
and chance played a prominent role in three distinct areas: in the lack of secrecy
surrounding Philip’s intentions, which some considered ‘the worst-kept secret
in Europe’, allowing Elizabeth the opportunity to prepare an effective defence;
in the unsuccessful efforts of the duke of Parma to ‘join hands’ with the Armada,
which many observers at the time and afterwards condemned as inadequate and
blamed for the overall failure; and in the technical and tactical disparity that
emerged when the English and Spanish fleets came to blows, allowing Elizabeth’s
‘Navy Royair to outmanoeuvre the Armada, thereby preventing Medina
Sidonia from ‘joining hands’ with Parma, without which the invasion — and thus
the entire Grand Strategy — could not succeed. Each aspect merits detailed
consideration.
This is not to claim that the entire fate of the ‘Habsburg bid for
mastery’ depended upon chance. In the lapidary phrases of a recent study of
strategy:
Even stunning operational success cannot overcome defective strategic
policy ... It is more important to make correct decisions at the political and
strategic level than it is at the operational and tactical level. Mistakes in
operations and tactics can be corrected, but political and strategic mistakes live
forever.^
207
Nevertheless, when an ambitious strategy apparently comes so close to success —
the Schlieffen Plan in 1914 or Operation Barbarossa and Pearl Harbor in
1941 spring to mind, as well as the Armada in 1588 - historians must devote
close examination to the details of execution, because not all ‘mistakes in
operations and tactics can be corrected’ in time, so that some of them may also
‘live forever’.
The Execution of Grand Strategy
■ ii
II
I:
7 The Worst-kept Secret in Europe?
The conjunct armament [i.e. combined operations} goes against the enemy like
an arrow from a bow. It gives no warning where it is to come, and leaves no
traces where it has passed. It must wound, too, where it hits, if rightly pointed
at a vulnerable part . . . The enemy, in the meantime, like a man in the dark
labouring under the weight of an unwieldy shield, moves slowly to and fro,
distracted and at a loss which way to go to guard against the stroke of an
invisible hand.
Thomas Molyneux, Conjunct expeditions (London, 1759)^
Only intelligence — the use of covert means to ascertain an enemy’s exact plan,
above all his intended target — can effectively parry the ‘stroke of an invisible
hand’. Once Elizabeth and Philip II moved to the brink of war in 1585, the
security of Tudor England depended in large measure upon acquiring a steady
stream of reliable information about Spain’s intentions — and Elizabeth knew it.
Among the State Papers for 1586 in the Public Record Office in London lie two
copies of a document in Spanish entitled ‘Summary copy of a statement prepared
by the Marquis of Santa Cruz . . . and sent to His Majesty [Philip of Spain} today,
22 March 1586’ (see Plate 27). They are exact copies of the overall logistical plan
prepared by Philip’s foremost naval commander for the invasion of England (see
p. 184 above).^
No one should be surprised by this remarkable breach of security, for several
other governments — including France, the Papacy, Venice and Urbino — gained
their own copies of the same item.^ Moreover this constituted but one in a long
series of leaks concerning the Enterprise of England. According to the duke of
Parma, at the same time, soldiers and civilians in the Netherlands began to discuss
openly how Spain could best invade and conquer England.^ Similar conversations
occurred in most capitals of western Europe. Sometimes the information rested
upon hearsay, but often enough it derived directly either from genuine ‘leaks’ by
a Spanish official or from copies of state papers made by a spy (like the Santa Cruz
strategic plan). In March 1588 even the Spanish battle-plan became known
abroad: a sketch of the distinctive crescent-shaped formation in which the Armada
209
Plate 27 Plan for the invasion
of England. The Public Record
Office in London possesses two
copies of the detailed
calculations made by Santa
Cruz, assisted by Bernabe de
Pedrosa (an expert on naval
logistics), of the ships, men,
supplies and equipment needed
for a successful invasion of
England. The spy who
transcribed the document — of
which the original may now be
found in the archives of
Simancas in Spain - noted that
it had been sent ‘today,
Saturday 22 March 1586’. The
copies were probably made by a
Flemish valet in Santa Cruz’s
household, whose brother
worked for the English
spymaster Sir Anthony Standen,
and they no doubt travelled
from Lisbon to Madrid, where
Ambassador Gianfigliazzi of
Tuscany forwarded them to
Standen in Florence. Thence
they reached Secretary of State
Walsingham in England, who
could thus read Santa Cruz’s
proposal only a few weeks after
the king himself
y ... Ct k''
I,,™—.- ^
fitk—........-nj>:
) tJketuh
y*-7T‘
p. ,
vvtm
. JU4.
ou
mht. A CM.t^
,i , V ~ .J":)-; 5-^' TSTssssq ■4
wyife
iiili
would sail up the Channel, with the position of each ship duly marked, fell into
the hands of at least three ambassadors, one of whom claimed to have obtained his
copy ‘from the original which lay on His Majesty’s table’ (see Plate 28).^'*
Paradoxically, however, these remarkable and recurrent breaches of security
only partially compromised the integrity of Philip’s Grand Design. The king later
boasted that ‘although speculation occurred concerning what might take place,
the plan remained concealed until the course of the campaign revealed it’, and he
was right: when the Armada at last set sail against England only he and his two
senior commanders knew either its precise target or its exact purpose (and even
Medina Sidonia seems not to have been told the place of disembarkation). “ Others
might guess, but they usually erred. In October 1587 several ambassadors at the
Court of Spain expressed their frustration about the complete secrecy that sur-
/ ft3^u>ua ■ ^
^ • il/Tiu
JluGu.^ /CttniiPt
rnu^t/A^0ilCLiliui/A/{^K
U- /tut-wL
■tu
!2tU&.
13 jyiG/fn.
MiuGiuu-
CZrJMML 4^'93T
idmtudi
7/^f ■
AU tL AL d.
etff
j ^ > 9
cr ccct ccccccc tree e cce c c c cc'cccc
X X XX/aTXX
e t19 -ere /f/ffffjT
A/A A AUAPlate
28 Battle plan of the Spanish Armada, sent to the grand duke of Tuscany on 25 March 1588. The
Tuscan ambassadors at the Court of Spain obtained valuable intelligence for their own government.
Gianfigliazzi’s successor, Vincenzo Alamanni, managed to see and copy the ‘design’ of the Armada as early as
March 1588 — two months before it put to sea. The Papal Nuncio did not secure a copy until June, his Venetian
colleague only the following month. The plan corresponded exactly to the Armada’s order of battle as it entered
the English Channel.
rounded the Armada: ‘The discretion of His Majesty and his ministers is such that
it is impossible to know what the outcome will be,’ complained the Mantuan
envoy. In February 1588 the Tuscan representative lamented that: ‘We have not
yet divined where this fleet will go: some think it will attack Holland and
Zealand, others Ireland; some [think it will go] straight to England, others by way
of Scotland’. Three months later — just before the Armada left Lisbon — the French
resident in Madrid, Longlee, still thought that ‘the principal design of these forces
is to take Zealand, preventing any relief from getting through’. The English fleet,
he asserted, would only be attacked if it tried to interfere with the reconquest of
the Dutch Republic. The Mantuan ambassador, one of the first to divine the true
Spanish strategy — namely a junction of the Armada from Spain with an expeditionary
force from the Netherlands as the prelude to a descent upon England —
later became convinced, like Longlee, that the fleet instead intended to exploit a
plot to surrender the port of Flushing in Zealand to the king; and although the
envoy of Ferrara had also correctly guessed the Grand Strategy at an early stage,
the large number of other observers who considered the real goal to be Holland
and Zealand eventually shook his confidence. Even the imperial ambassador,
Khevenhiiller, normally the most perceptive diplomat in Madrid, at one point
deemed it all a hoax: ‘In 1587 I was right when I predicted that the Armada
would not leave that year, now in 1588 I do not trust myself to make a prediction.
212
But ... I believe that all these preparations are more to facilitate and preserve
a good peace than for any other reason.Sir William Winter, one of England’s
most experienced admirals, agreed: Parma’s military preparations, he thought,
aimed either to secure a peace ‘most for his master’s advantage’ or else to assault
Holland and Zealand. Finally the earl of Leicester, governor-general of the Dutch
Republic and Elizabeth’s Favourite, believed that Spain wished to make peace
with England in order to concentrate on supporting the French Catholics.All of
these distinguished observers would soon have to eat their words.
Two questions arise from this remarkable confusion: how did so much classified
information on Philip’s strategic plans come to be generally available; and why
did so many expert observers nonetheless manage to misinterpret it? In part, the
paradox resulted from the absence of direct diplomatic links between England
and Spain. Elizabeth recalled her last resident ambassador from Spain in 1568
and expelled the last Spanish ambassador to Tudor England in 1584. After this,
only a few ad hoc diplomatic contacts took place and the envoys exchanged seem
to have had little access to state secrets until the summer of 1588, when a
conference convened at Bourbourg in Flanders to discuss the issues that divided
the two powers. There, almost two whole weeks before the Armada arrived in the
Channel, Valentine Dale (one of Elizabeth’s peace commissioners) heard from an
unimpeachable source that Parma was preparing to invade England. When Dale
asked point-blank at an audience on 18 July if he intended to carry out the papal
sentence of deposition against the queen, the duke replied that, although he
served Philip II and not the pope, if his master commanded him to invade, then
‘as a servant and a soldier’ he must obey; adding
yn myne opinion yow have more cause to desyre [peace] than we, for that yf the
king my master doe lose a battayl he shal be able to recover hyt wel enough
without harme to himselfe, being far enough off yn Spayne; and if the battayl
be lost of your side, yt may be to lose the kingdom and all.
Incredibly, Queen Elizabeth missed the significance of even this indiscretion, for
in response she merely required her commissioners to ask Parma again ‘plainly
whether or not he had any commandement from the king to invade her realm’ and
to secure ‘immediate satisfaction from him under his own hand’ that ‘he has no
direction from the king of Spain or the pope to invade’. Receipt of this insouciant
reply enraged Dale: that same day - 5 August 1588 - he fired off at least five
letters to his friends on the Privy Council upbraiding them for their blindness.
Her Majestie coulde have no playner advertisement then that of the duke’s
speache that he was a servant and a soldior to doe his master’s commandement
and then if his master would command hym to execute the pope’s sentence he
must not refuse hit. And when he said the queen had nede to loke to hit bycause
one battaile lost yn England woulde be the losse of her crowne ... he coulde
speake no playner, except he had sayd ‘I wil gyve her a battail yn England’.
The Execution of Grand Strategy 213
He also reminded his correspondents of the large concentrations of troops
‘which are here yn readiness expecting the navie of Spayne, to be transported
into England’ and, referring to Henry VIII’s cross-Channel invasion in 1544,
asked ‘is yt not playne enough without a globe? Should a man have demanded
whether King Henrie went [= would go] to Boulogne when his armie was yn
readines?’ But it was already too late: the very next day the Armada anchored off
Calais.
The business of intelligence in the sixteenth century consisted of the same three
divisions as today - acquisition, analysis and acceptance - and Valentine Dale’s
frustrating experience highlights the crucial importance of all three. Simply
gaining useful information (as he had done) did not suffice; governments also
needed to grasp its significance and then react accordingly.^^ In the sixteenth
century, ‘acquisition’ generally fell into one of two categories: intelligence from
intercepted communications or from individuals. Most of it seems modest by
modern standards. Since it is far easier to intercept radio signals than couriers,
espionage proved relatively unsuccessful against Philip IPs communication
systems, particularly in the case of operational intelligence (because of the need
to intercept large numbers of messages over an extended period of time in order
to piece together the relevant details of an enemy’s plans). Furthermore interrogation
of enemy personnel in the sixteenth century rarely produced the spectacular
results claimed by the ‘spy-catchers’ of the twentieth. Nevertheless, the intelligence
services of early modern European states still scored occasional triumphs.
Thus the capture of Odo Colonna, a junior officer in the Spanish Army of Flanders,
by a Dutch raiding party in December 1587 provided rich rewards because
Colonna (although serving incognito) was no ordinary subaltern. His uncle,
a cardinal, knew all about Philip’s designs because, from the first, the king had
shared his plans for the conquest of England with Pope Sixtus V. At first, details
leaked to members of the Sacred College through papal indiscretion - at Christmas
1586 the Spanish ambassador, kneeling piously as usual at the front of the
congregation at pontifical Mass, overheard Sixtus bring the two cardinals assisting
him up to date with Spain’s plan to conquer England. Worse followed in 1587
when the king demanded a formal promise binding the pope and his successors
to recognize Philip’s rights to the crown of England and to contribute i million
ducats to the conquest. The matter came before three meetings of the papal
Consistory to which Cardinal Colonna belonged, and although the king had his
way - the pope and the cardinals eventually consented - dozens more people now
knew the secret.'^ All this and more Odo Colonna passed on to his Dutch captors,
who lost no time in notifying the English government; but, as with the duke of
Parma’s indiscretion to Valentine Dale, at first no one in London seems to have
grasped its significance.*^
The testimony of the Spaniards captured on the Armada itself could hardly be
ignored, however. Just after the Grand Fleet entered the Channel, Sir Francis
Drake took the flagship of the Andalusian squadron, Nuestra Senora del Rosario,
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe?
214
more or less intact. It carried a large sum of money (which he and his crew
immediately appropriated), a welcome supply of powder and shot (redistributed
among the English fleet), and some 250 prisoners (most of them immediately sent
to London for interrogation). Only Don Pedro de Valdes, one of the Armada’s
eight squadron commanders, stayed with Drake. He had been present at all
meetings of the council of War and now for ten days he ate at the same table and
slept in the same cabin as Drake, who apparently debriefed him exhaustively on
the technical and tactical strengths and weaknesses of the enemy fleet.^'’Meanwhile,
ashore, the English Privy Council interrogated some forty other captives
from the Rosario on 12 August. They asked, for example, ‘Whether the intention
of the fleet was to invade and conquer England or no’; ‘Where they should have
landed; and whether their meaning were to take the City of London; and what
they meant to have done if they had taken it?’ Apart from unanimous confirmation
that the fleet had intended to join forces with Parma before launching
the invasion, the answers to these questions possessed only marginal interest to
Elizabeth’s ministers by the time they were recorded, for the Armada had already
been repulsed. More relevant were question 7 - ‘What they have heard or know
of any help or succour that they should receive upon their landing in England’ -
and question 15- ‘Whether there be any other preparation to come hereafter for
the defence of this fleet’. Their responses proved alarming: on the first issue the
prisoners answered that they expected between one-third and one-half of the
population of England to support the invasion; on the second they replied that
a considerable reserve fleet was in preparation in Lisbon for dispatch against
England. It seems likely that this information - although false - contributed
directly towards the ruthless treatment of the Armada survivors forced ashore on
the coasts of Ireland in the following month: fearing that they might constitute
the advance units of a second fleet, and with fewer than 750 English soldiers
stationed in all Ireland, as a panic measure the government decided ‘to apprehend
and execute all Spaniards found, of what quality soever’.
Such intelligence coups remained few. Although England regularly sent ships
to cruise off the coast of Spain in order to intercept merchant vessels and interrogate
(and sometimes abduct) their masters and crews, most of those captured
had no access to strategic information; and even the light they could shed on
operational matters was usually limited.^^ Moreover they often became, in effect,
double-agents for they could pick up as much data as they gave. Thus the
unfortunate magistrate captured aboard the Primrose at Bilbao in 1585 returned to
Spain with precious details on the Royal Navy’s preferred tactics; two mastermariners
captured in 1586, and taken back to England for questioning, on their
release provided valuable detail on Elizabeth’s preparations and even the names of
some of Elizabeth’s spies in Spain; others supplied a detailed description of the
English warships, listing the guns aboard and comparing them with Armada
vessels.
Elizabeth’s government therefore relied, for most of its knowledge about
Philip s plans, on its agents and friends overseas. Some data came from the
The Execution of Grand Strategy 215
couriers who carried diplomatic messages between England and the continent:
ministers routinely debriefed them on what they had seen and heard. More
originated with ‘Englishmen abroad’ who reported their impressions by letter.
One of the most exact accounts of the invasion transports assembled in the ports
of Flanders by the duke of Parma came from an English sailor who arrived at
Dunkirk to unload a consignment of good English beer for the diplomats at
Bourbourg (whose patriotic stomachs churned upon imbibing the local brew). His
experienced mariner’s eye quickly noted the numbers, strengths and weaknesses
of the duke’s fleet, which he promptly wrote down and sent back to London.
Foreign well-wishers also contributed some intelligence: thus the Protestant
rulers of northern Europe regularly passed on any information that came their way
about Catholic designs against their English ally.^’^ And from Portugal the queen
could count on information supplied by those who sympathized with the Portuguese
pretender’, Dom Antonio, a refugee at the Tudor Court after 1585. The
papers of Sir Francis Walsingham, Elizabeth’s secretary of state and principal
‘spymaster’, contain a number of detailed reports on the preparation of the
Armada sent from Lisbon by Philip’s disaffected new subjects.
These agents too, however, rarely enjoyed access to secrets of state: although
they could supply information on the mobilization of Philip s resources, they
could neither fathom their purpose nor foretell the likely moment or manner of
their deployment. For this, Elizabeth’s government needed to penetrate the
communications network of Spain and its allies. Admittedly, reading the mail
of people close to, though still outside, the centres of government could provide
valuable operational information: the location of the writer’s unit and what it
planned to do; recent movements of troops and munitions; the state of local
morale. Thus an intercepted letter from an Italian merchant in Brussels to a friend
in Spain on 30 June 1588 provided not only precise details on the programme for
the embarkation of Parma’s troops in Flanders but also a copy of the pope s special
indulgence for all who joined the ‘crusade’ to conquer England — thus revealing
beyond all doubt, for those who would listen, the Armada’s principal objective. ^
Yet although events would confirm every detail in this letter, it remained barely
distinguishable from the host of other, contradictory messages, most of them
equally plausible, intercepted by the queen’s agents.
Elizabeth’s ministers desperately needed information from the pen of the king
himself in order to evaluate the other material; but this they rarely managed to
intercept. Part of the problem lay in the fact that Philip and his envoys abroad
wrote their letters in complex codes. For example, each secretary of state normally
used a ‘general cipher’ for his correspondence with ministers abroad, and these
changed as a matter of routine every few years; in addition, they employed a
special cipher to communicate with groups of senior officials (for example with
the governor-general in Brussels and the ambassadors in London, Paris and
Vienna, and each of these ministers used the same cipher when they corresponded
among themselves). Furthermore, individuals in particularly sensitive circumstances
abroad might be given a totally different - unique - cipher. Finally, at
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe?
2i6 The Execution of Grand Strategy
times of acute uncertainty, distinct codes might be used for alternate paragraphs
in the same letter.^® Even these precautions did not always suffice, however.
Occasionally, a key might be lost (all Spain’s ciphers had to be changed in 1564,
for example, after the waylaying of an ambassador’s servant); or an enemy might
intercept a ciphered copy of a document already possessed en clair (a high
risk during peace negotiations, where both sides would discuss copies of the same
documents).^^ Finally a corrupt official might give or sell codes to an enemy; in
1576 and 1577 the Dutch managed to decode almost all intercepted letters
exchanged between Philip and his agents in the Netherlands, apparently due to
the betrayal of cipher keys by the chief clerk of the Spanish secretary of state.But
could codes be broken without help of this sort? The evidence is ambiguous.
According to a mathematician and geographer in Spanish service, ‘until today, no
cipher has been found that cannot be deciphered and understood’; and yet French
ambassador Laubespine and Elizabeth’s chief minister Burghley - both men of
outstanding intelligence - frankly admitted that they could not break codes
without a key.Sir Francis Walsingham, who maintained a team of cryptanalysts,
seems to have been more successful. His greatest triumph concerned a ciphered
letter of March 1588, sent in duplicate by Philip’s ambassador in Rome, to report
to his master a detailed conversation with the pope about the continuing delays in
the Armada’s departure, Parma’s involvement in the enterprise, the amount of
support to come from the papal treasury, and the investiture of the next ruler after
Elizabeth’s deposition. One copy somehow reached Walsingham, and by early
June (if not before) his experts had produced an almost perfect deciphered
copy that revealed all the essential elements of Philip’s Grand Strategy against
England.^"*
Precisely to avoid these various mishaps, the king and his ministers normally
wrote down as little as possible that might reveal their plans to a third party. The
perils of committing operational plans to paper had been graphically demonstrated
to Philip many years before. Early in 1552 Habsburg agents captured near
Trieste a French courier coming from Istanbul. His papers included a long letter
from the French ambassador at the Ottoman Court to his master in Paris,
outlining in detail the sultan’s campaign plans for the year - including the crucial
intelligence that the Turks would not launch an attack in Hungary but instead
proposed to concentrate on naval operations off the Italian coast. Since the letter
had not even been ciphered, the Habsburgs could act immediately and deploy
their forces in the most effective manner, enabling them to survive (albeit by only
a narrow margin) the combined attack launched later that year by the French, the
Turks, several Italian princes and the German Protestants.^^ It provided a valuable
lesson in intelligence procedure that Philip and his advisers rarely forgot. Thus in
September 1586 the king criticized his ambassador in Paris for committing too
many sensitive details to paper. ‘In future’, the king chided, ‘it would be better
and more secure to entrust these secret matters to persons of confidence who will
handle them by word of mouth, without writing them down’.And he normally
followed his own advice meticulously: for example, although Philip sent full
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe? 217
details of the proposed invasion strategy for England to the duke of Parma via a
special messenger in July 1586, subsequently he referred in writing only to ‘the
plan agreed {la traza establecidaf or ‘the appointed place {la plaza acordaddf:
Spain’s enemies therefore needed to gain direct access to the documents ‘on the
king’s desk’, or to the ministers who made and discussed policy. The Santa Cruz
memorandum of March 1586 (see Plate 27) must have been copied by a spy in the
marquis’s household in Lisbon - and by a spy who knew his job, for he sent two
copies, lest one should be lost. Even today the spy’s identity is unknown, but he
was probably the ‘Fleming’ in the marquis’s household whose brother served as a
courier for Sir Anthony Standen, alias ‘Pompeo Pellegrini’, a talented master of
espionage based in Florence. The network functioned as follows: Standen’s agent
took documents and information from his brother (and perhaps others) in Lisbon
to Madrid where he gave them to the Tuscan ambassador, Gianfigliazzi, who
forwarded them to Florence where Standen picked them up for transmission to
Walsingham in London.When Gianfigliazzi returned to Tuscany, Standen made
a personal journey to Madrid and Lisbon in order to verify for himself the strength
and purpose of the Armada, sending a stream of highly informative dispatches
back to England via Florence: thus in July 1587 he found out for certain that
Santa Cruz would lead his fleet from Lisbon to the Azores and not against England
by somehow managing to read the king’s Instruction to the marquis even though
it ‘was only knowne to the one and the other’; and in June 1588 he even succeeded
in obtaining exact information on the Armada’s ultimate destination — London —
apparently the only outsider to do so.^^
Sir Anthony Standen was but one of several special agents deployed by
Walsingham. In spring 1587 the secretary drew up a ‘Plotte for intellygence
owt of Spayne’ which included establishing a clearing house in Rouen for all
Spanish news coming to merchants in Le Havre, Dieppe and Nantes; securing
‘intellygence at Brussells’; and maintaining ‘two intellygensers in the work of
Spayne, one of Finale, another of Genua’. These various initiatives duly bore fruit.
News of the death of the marquis of Santa Cruz in spring 1588 reached London
via Walsingham’s agent in Genoa within the month.A man who called himself
‘Captain Jacopo da Pisa’ sent Walsingham numerous letters from Lombardy
between September 1586 and March 1587 filled both with news received from the
Iberian peninsula and with details on the movement of troops, treasure and
diplomats through Milan, the principal marshalling yard for the resources of
the Spanish empire in Europe.^^^ Burghley sent Stephen Powle first to Germany
and then in May 1587 to Venice in order to collect information about Philip’s
designs against England, and over the next ten months he sent back to London
bi-weekly reports on political and military developments. Other agents of the
English government laboured elsewhere in the peninsula, and Burghley made it
his business ‘frequently [to} reade the advices which commonly come from
Italye’.”^^
For Italy served as the centre of all European intelligence in the later sixteenth
century. Even when receiving information from an English pilot working
2i8
‘undercover’ aboard the Armada itself, one of Walsingham’s agents advised that
‘spies should be sent into Italy to discover the truth [of all this}’/^Ten independent
Italian states normally maintained a resident ambassador at the Court of
Spain, because the preponderant influence of Spain within Italy made it essential
for them to keep track of Philip’s intentions. Naturally, the majority of each
envoy’s correspondence dealt with local matters — especially territorial disputes,
either with one of the Spanish dominions in Italy or with another Italian potentate
(for smaller states often asked Philip to serve as mediator - but developments
elsewhere that might distract the king of Spain, especially if they could result in
hostilities, also received careful note. And since war with England would clearly
affect the Italian states, their ambassadors strove almost as hard as Walsingham to
divine Spain’s true intentions.
Each major stage in the formation of Philip’s Grand Strategy against
England became known in the courts of Italy with astonishing speed. Thus in
October 1585 when, in response to Drake’s sack of some coastal towns in Galicia,
the king informed both the pope and the grand duke of Tuscany of his readiness
to undertake the Enterprise of England (p. 180 above), some members of the
diplomatic corps actually anticipated this decision. The envoy from Lucca
informed his government in August, two months before the English struck at
Galicia, that:
The enterprise of the conquest of England has been decided upon for next year,
and I understand that King Philip has already requested the pope to intervene
with the king of France, asking that he should not hinder the operation but
favour it."*^
The news may have been premature, but the ambassador had certainly detected
which way the wind blew. In any case, Philip’s decision in late October became
known in Rome and Florence about a month later, and in Venice, Mantua and
Turin shortly after that.
As already noted, the blueprint for mobilizing an amphibious expedition
against England prepared by Santa Cruz early in 1586 was swiftly intercepted and
transmitted to most Italian courts as well as to London; and news of Philip’s
resolution to mobilize resources throughout the Iberian and Italian peninsulas
leaked out soon afterwards. Indeed the Mantuan ambassador got word of the
decision almost as it left the king’s desk:
I learned today that His Majesty is extremely annoyed by the news of Drake’s
progress in the Indies, and that some ten days ago he dispatched twelve
couriers . . . with orders to embargo ships. And it is said that His Majesty is
entirely resolved to undertake the Enterprise of England."**^
The Execution of Grand Strategy
How did the ambassadors secure such remarkably accurate intelligence?
Although, understandably, they rarely revealed their precise sources, they seem to
219
have used three major techniques of information-gathering: their own observations,
data from paid informers, and information from well-wishers. To begin
with, envoys sometimes claimed to have seen a document that they then either
summarized or copied.^^ Occasionally, an ambassador may even have chanced to
see something ‘which lay on His Majesty’s table’. However, in 1575 *^^e king
reviewed precisely this risk with his private secretary after an embarrassing
security leak: neither considered it feasible. ‘It is not to be believed that anyone
could come and read the papers on Your Majesty’s table,’ asserted the secretary,
and the king concurred: ‘It would not have been possible to see the documents,
because I always keep them concealed. It just would not have been possible.
Most of the items ‘which lay on the His Majesty’s table’ reported in ambassadorial
dispatches, especially when a copy was enclosed, probably came by way
of a member of the king’s own staff Cardinal Granvelle once complained that
‘nothing is discussed in Madrid without the princes of Italy and even others
finding out’, and he blamed minor officials, several of whom were caught over
time betraying secrets: in 1556 an under-secretary was found to have sold documents
on Spain’s bargaining position during negotiations with France, while in
the 1560s Philip’s Flemish valet allegedly rummaged through his master’s pockets
while he slept and sent details on his plans to the Netherlands opposition."*^ In
1567 the French ambassador hoped to discover Spain’s intentions towards the
Netherlands ‘by means of a friend of the secretary of a certain lord; but the said
secretary replied that his master warned him, with his hand on his sword, that he
would kill him with a hundred blows if the enterprise on which they are presently
engaged should become known’.In 1581 the chief official of the State Department,
Juan del Castillo, born in the Netherlands of a Spanish father, was arrested
and charged with sending intelligence and even cipher keys to the Dutch in return
for an annual pension of 300 ducats from William of Orange.^* Sometimes,
however, even ministers could be indiscreet. In 1584 Granvelle (then president of
the council of Italy), irritated by the knowledge that someone was betraying
secrets to the Venetian ambassador, planned to provide some false information
on a pending promotion in order to trace the leak; to his horror, however, he
discovered that the council’s secretary had himself already given — or sold — a copy
of the relevant document to the ambassador over dinner.
Some diplomats paid for such useful information while others received it free. In
April 1586 the duke of Medina Sidonia volunteered to the imperial ambassador
full details about the naval preparations just authorized by the king, including
their purpose — the conquest of England — while in the summer of 1598 ^
‘well-informed person’ at the Escorial sent regular reports to the nuncio in Madrid
about the declining state of the king’s health.” Sometimes ambassadors shared the
information they acquired. Fourquevaux — representing France and thus perhaps
viewed with suspicion by most Spaniards — regularly consulted his diplomatic
colleagues to ascertain what they knew about Philip’s policies; in 1585, the nuncio
in Madrid provided the Mantuan ambassador with a copy of a papal brief that
called upon Philip to invade England; and the following year, when the Savoyard
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe?
220
ambassador discovered that the king had decided upon a Grand Strategy that
combined a fleet from Spain with the Army of Flanders, he immediately shared the
knowledge with his Venetian counterpart.^^Since each envoy usually forwarded to
his government in unciphered letters the information he obtained, Elizabeth’s
agents in Italy enjoyed multiple opportunities for interception.
The efforts of the diplomats in Madrid did not, of course, stand alone. Philip’s
ministers elsewhere could also be indiscreet, and well-placed agents could learn
much from them: the household of Santa Cruz in Lisbon harboured at least two
spies - not only Sir Anthony Standen’s ‘Fleming’ but also a confidant of the papal
collector in Portugal, Mutio Buongiovanni, whose lively reports contained a great
deal of classified material (all sent to Rome in unciphered dispatches). In addition,
in the spring and summer of 1588, details of Philip’s final strategy leaked out
from the duke of Parma in Brussels, from Don Bernardino de Mendoza in Paris,
from Cardinal Allen in Rome and from the duke of Medina Sidonia in Lisbon. The
Armada had indeed become the ‘worst-kept secret in Europe’.”
Details of Philip’s Grand Strategy might also have been available to the English
government from the correspondence of the two non-Italian representatives in
Madrid - the Erench and imperial envoys - but, for very different reasons, their
intelligence proved of limited use to England. The imperial ambassador, Hans
Khevenhiiller zu Aichelburg, count of Frankenburg, probably acquired the best
information of any diplomat at the Spanish Court because he enjoyed a number of
advantages. To begin with, since he represented Rudolf II, head of the junior
Habsburg line and Philip’s brother-in-law (and nephew and cousin), many
ministers regarded him as a friend; since he was an aristocrat (in contrast to the
career diplomats and patricians from Italy) he could deal with courtiers as an
equal; and since he served in Madrid continuously from 1574 to 1606, he had
built up many reliable contacts. In addition he possessed a perfect command of
Spanish, even writing parts of many dispatches in that language, so that he missed
little of what he heard and saw.” Finally, whenever his own resources proved
insufficient to establish the truth, Khevenhiiller could call upon the dowager
Empress Maria, Rudolf s mother and Philip’s sister, who had retired to a Madrid
monastery but kept in close touch with the Court, and upon Rudolfs younger
brother the Archduke Albert, who as viceroy of Portugal supervised all preparations
for the Armada at Lisbon.Although the imperial embassy staff remained
small - only 4 or 5, compared with 14 or 15 for Mantua - Khevenhiiller could
usually rely on the good offices of the empress or the archduke to procure copies
of almost any document that he thought his master might require: thus his
detailed report on the Armada’s progress, sent to Rudolf on 14 September
1588, came from copies of letters sent by Philip to inform Maria, and shown by
her to Khevenhiiller.” But Prague lay too far from London to be of much use
to Elizabeth’s government: by the time a courier had travelled from Madrid to
Prague, a journey of between four and eight weeks, and then from Prague to
London, which took at least four weeks more, the news would usually be out of
date.”
The Execution of Grand Strategy 221
Paris would have been far more useful for English intelligence but two considerations
seriously compromised the value of the information available there: Pierre
de Segusson, lord of Longlee, the French envoy in Madrid, was both underfunded
and unreliable; and Sir Edward Stafford, the English ambassador in Paris, became
a Spanish spy. Appointed in 1583, but denied the rank of ambassador, Longlee
rarely had enough money to employ spies of his own (on one occasion Henry III
forbade him to send letters by express messenger because it cost too much), and
therefore often lacked information available to other ambassadors.In March
1586, for example, he remained blissfully unaware that, six months before, Philip
had taken the decision to invade England, and his master had to instruct him to
find out about the facts on his own doorstep:
I have seen the Advertisements that Your Majesty [Henry III} has received
from Italy and other places suggesting that the king of Spain is presently
assembling large forces which are thought to be intended for the invasion of
England . . . concerning which Your Majesty commands me to keep my eyes
open for anything affecting your service and to keep you informed.^^
Longlee seems to have developed his own agenda, however. In January 1587 he
sent a trusted emissary to see the nuncio in Madrid and, in strict secrecy, let it be
known that he personally favoured sending the Armada against England in order
to extirpate Protestantism both there and in the Netherlands. He hoped that the
venture could be mounted jointly by France and Spain, but if not he still desired
the pope to throw his whole weight behind it. The nuncio, while noting that
Longlee seemed a man of deep faith, whose ‘household resembles a monastery’,
remained dubious about his sincerity; however, two months later the French
envoy called in person and once again expressed his personal support for the
Enterprise of England.^^ This private resolve may explain Longlee’s otherwise
inexplicable errors and omissions when reporting on the Armada to his superiors
in Paris. As late as January 1588 he still claimed to have no clue concerning the
Grand Fleet’s real purpose: ‘As for the place at which all these armed forces, both
here and in Flanders, will strike, so far it has been beyond my power to penetrate
any deeper’.^^ Such insights would scarcely help the spies maintained by the
English government in Paris — especially since Spanish agents often knew which
documents Longlee had secured and so could work to discredit them.^^
Unfortunately for Elizabeth, the leading spy in Paris was her own ambassador.
On the surface Sir Edward Stafford boasted superb qualifications, both social and
professional, for England’s foremost diplomatic posting: his late stepmother
(Mary Boleyn) had been Elizabeth’s aunt; his mother served as lady-in-waiting to
the queen; his brother-in-law (Howard of Effingham) served both as admiral of
England and as a privy councillor. Eurthermore he had cut his diplomatic teeth in
France during the negotiations for the queen’s marriage to the duke of Anjou. His
appointment as ambassador to the French Court in 1583 came as no surprise.
Stafford’s only real disadvantage lay in his poverty. He complained several times
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe?
222 The Execution of Grand Strategy
that he lacked funds to discharge his responsibilities properly and asked the queen
to lend him money even if she could not afford to pay his salary; but she gave him
no satisfaction and he ran up huge debts. Then in 1586, if not earlier, he seems to
have found an alternative source of funds. Three independent contemporary
accounts accused Stafford of selling information to the duke of Guise, leader of the
French Catholic League. But still his debts mounted — largely through immoderate
gambling. He squandered not only his salary and the cash from Guise but
also a substantial sum sent to him by the queen to distribute among her
French supporters. In January 1587, desperate for money, Stafford approached
Don Bernardino de Mendoza and offered to provide information on Elizabeth’s
plans.
From this point on, Stafford repeatedly supplied Spain with precise details on
(for example) the strength, movements and objectives of the Royal Navy just as
soon as he found them out. Stafford passed on to Mendoza advance warning of
Drake’s Cadiz raid in April 1587, of a planned attack on Lisbon in March 1588
and of the concentration of the English fleet at Plymouth in May 1588 — strategic
information on which the security if not the survival of the Tudor regime
depended — just as soon as it arrived from London. It is true that he exaggerated
the firepower of the Royal Navy on at least one occasion, and one could argue that
he did so in order to alarm, and perhaps deter, Philip; but, equally, Stafford may
have believed the information to be true, since it came directly from his brotherin-
law Admiral Howard.
Further evidence of Stafford’s treachery appears in the information on Spain’s
preparations and intentions that he himself sent back to London. For a man who
enjoyed almost constant contact with the Spanish ambassador (as well as with the
rest of the diplomatic corps in Paris), Stafford should have been able to transmit
a constant stream of high-grade intelligence on Philip’s plans to his government,
just as other ambassadors did.^^ Curious to relate, however, such information
featured only rarely in his dispatches. Instead he played up the hostility of the
French to England, especially after the execution of Mary Stuart, making the
League seem to be Elizabeth’s principal enemy. On the relatively few occasions
when he did mention Spain, Stafford went out of his way to stress the restraint, the
pacific intentions and the moral rectitude of the king of Spain. Perhaps his most
egregious attempt to deceive his own government came in January 1588 when he
informed Elizabeth that the Spanish Armada had been disbanded. A copy of his
letter reached Admiral Howard, who expressed incredulity:
I cannot tell what to think of my brother[-in-law} Stafford’s advertisement; for
if it be true that the King of Spain’s forces be dissolved, I would not wish the
Queen’s Majesty to be at this charge that she is at; but if it be a device, knowing
that a little thing makes us too careless, then I know not what may come of it.
In May 1588 Stafford suggested that the Armada was aiming for Algiers. Shortly
afterwards he at last referred to a letter he had seen in Mendoza’s study, menThe
Worst-kept Secret in Europe? 223
tioning an enterprise against England; but he suggested that anything left out in
the open there would clearly be meant only to deceive, thus constituting one more
indication that the Armada had some other purpose. In June he told Walsingham
that he thought the Armada would sail for the Indies; in mid-July he asserted that
bets of six to one were being made in Paris that the Armada would never reach the
Channel; and on 31 July, with the Grand Fleet off the Lizard, Stafford still insisted
that it remained too damaged ever to leave Corunna. To advise his government
repeatedly that Spain no longer intended to launch an invasion, at a time when he
must have known that every effort was being made to get the Armada to sea,
constituted treason of the basest sort. Since Philip secured all these benefits in
return for payments to Stafford that totalled just 5,200 ducats. Sir Edward must
surely be regarded as the intelligence bargain of the century.^^
Naturally Elizabeth and her ministers did not depend totally on Stafford for
their news from France: other independent agents also reported directly to
Walsingham, many of them resident in Paris, but the queen paid them poorly. A
fifteenth-century treatise, Le Jouvencaf had recommended that ‘a prince should
spend one-third of his revenues on spies’, but Queen Elizabeth laid out barely 5
per cent of hers - £1,1,000 (about 44,000 ducats) annually in the critical years
1584—87.^^ The general calibre of agents available therefore remained low. Some
of them started out in the service of the queen’s enemies until, having been
captured as they went about their business, they secured their liberty in return for
becoming a double-agent. Others were recruited in gaol, especially if they languished
there for debt, and earned release by spying on their fellow-prisoners.
They then went on to spy elsewhere and received payment as and when they
turned in some apparently valuable nugget of intelligence. A better recipe for
stimulating false or exaggerated information could scarcely have been devised: not
surprisingly, Walsingham, widely known to fear an international Catholic conspiracy
directed against England, was bombarded by his agents with reports of
plots, assassination attempts and invasion plans; Burghley, by contrast, who held
a less apocalyptic world-view, tended to receive rumours of peace and evidence of
Spanish moderation from his men.'
The detailed and accurate signals received from Italy must be seen in the context
of this chaotic background noise, for successful intelligence operations depend, as
noted above, not only on acquisition but also on analysis and acceptance. It is hard
to assess the Tudor government’s success in analysing foreign data, because so
many key documents have disappeared: the relevant volumes in the ‘State Paper’
series in London contain far more incoming than outgoing letters (and precious
few evaluations or policy statements); and although the private archives of both
Burghley and Walsingham help to fill this gap, many lacunae remain. Nevertheless,
the surviving evidence indicates clearly enough some grave deficiencies in
Elizabeth’s secret service.
The queen boasted of her ability to hear and see everything (Plate 29). She, as
well as Burghley and the earl of Leicester, had known Philip and some of his older
224
Plate 29 The ‘Rainbow
portrait’ of Queen Elizabeth
I, perhaps by Geeraerts or
Critz, is one of no known
contemporary pictures of
Elizabeth of England. In
stark contrast to the
understated portraits of
Philip II (such as Plate 4),
the queen liked to be
pottrayed in colourful
majesty. The painting also
used code, or (in the phrase
of the treatise of Cesare
Ripa’s Iconologia of 1592)
made ‘images signify
something different from
what one sees at first in
them’. Key symbols here
include the eyes and ears on
Elizabeth’s gown, implying
that she could see and hear
everything.
ministers personally, while Walsingham had served as ambassador in France and
so possessed first-hand experience of the ‘field work’ required for gathering intelligence.^^
Nevertheless, England faced the same difficulties as all states, however
well informed, in trying to avoid strategic surprise. The failure of United States
forces to predict and prepare for the Japanese attacks on Pearl Harbor and the
Philippines on 7/8 December 1941 offers a helpful parallel. After all, as Roberta
Wohlstetter observed in her brilliant study of the available evidence, ‘Never
before’ had a government possessed ‘so complete an intelligence picture of the
enemy’. American cryptanalysts had broken not only the main Japanese diplomatic
codes but also some of those used by Japanese agents in American and other
foreign ports; American naval leaders had at their disposal radio traffic analysis of
transmissions in Japanese military and naval codes which enabled them to pinpoint
the location of the various Japanese fleet units; British intelligence placed
their own findings at the United States’ disposal; finally, the US embassy in
Tokyo, naval attaches and observers in East Asian ports, and the Far Eastern
correspondents of several American newspapers all provided extremely accurate
reporting of Japan’s actions and intentions almost up to the last moment.And
yet, despite this abundance of information, the Japanese attacks on Pearl Harbor
and the Philippines still took the United States by surprise. Why? Wohlstetter
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe? 225
advanced several explanations: previous alerts before the attack had proved to be
false alarms and so numbed responses to subsequent signals of further danger;
American forces believed a sabotage attack to be the most likely Japanese strategy;
Japan managed to conceal certain key intelligence while providing convincing
‘disinformation’ for American collection. More important than any of these,
however, was ‘the very human tendency to pay attention to the signals that
support current expectations about enemy behavior’. ‘Human attention’, she
noted, ‘is directed by beliefs as to what is likely to occur, and one cannot always
listen for the right sounds.
All of these factors also came into play in England in 1585—88, exacerbated by
the extraordinary fluidity of Spanish planning: a landing in Scotland, a surprise
attack on the Isle of Wight, a sudden solo assault by Parma’s army on the coast of
Kent, as well as amphibious assaults from Lisbon on Algiers and Earache instead
of on England - Philip gave all of these strategies serious consideration at some
point. Moreover, as already noted, the various ambassadors duly detected each
proposal and passed it on to their principals, creating a cacophony of background
noise that disguised the king’s true intentions.Few could accept that the most
powerful monarch in Christendom could be so irresolute; still less that, after so
much apparent vacillation, he would adopt the most obvious of all strategies, the
one that everyone had been talking about for months, and would choose for his
target the most obvious place, where the Romans, Saxons and others had already
landed.
When in late December 1587 Queen Elizabeth ordered her fleet to put to sea,
her Instructions to Admiral Howard revealed almost total confusion about
Philip’s intentions. The document began firmly enough: ‘Being sundry wayes
most credibly given to understand of the great and extraordinary preparations
made by sea as well in Spayn by the king there as in the Lowe Countreys by the
duke of Parma’; but then uncertainty set in — ‘and that it is allso ment that the
sayde forces shall be employed in som enterprise to be atempted eyther in our
dominiones of England and Irland or in the relm of Scotland . The document
therefore envisaged a large number of possible scenarios and tried to guard against
every conceivable threat. Drake would take one part of the fleet ‘to ply up and
downe between the relm of Irland and the west parte of this relm’ in case the
Spanish fleet should seek to attack Ireland, south-west England or the west coast
of Scotland; meanwhile Howard should ply up and down, somtymes toward the
north and somtymes towards the south’ to guard against a descent from either
Spain or Flanders on the east coast of either England or Scotland. If Parma moved
against a Dutch seaport, however, Howard should ‘doo your best endevor to
impech any such attempt’; while if the Armada appeared in the Channel approaches,
he should send reinforcements to Drake.
Paradoxically, given the poor security reigning at his Court, Philip could have
found no more effective way of confusing his enemies about his true intentions
than by constantly changing his mind, for every change seemed to cast suspicion
on the accuracy of the last piece of intelligence, making analysis and (above all)
226
‘acceptance’ extremely difficult/^ Moreover, the confusion brought out the worst
in Elizabeth. On the one hand, the continuing state of high alert reinforced her
parsimonious instincts. The cost of war in the sixteenth century rose constantly,
and England had already spent heavily to support the struggle of the Dutch
Republic against Spain: £400,000 (roughly 1.6 million ducats) in the three years
1585-88. Elizabeth had also sent subsidies to the French and German Protestants.
The cost to her treasury of all-out war with Spain could scarcely be less than
£400,000 a year — precisely double her ordinary revenues! So the queen seized
upon every excuse to delay until the last moment full mobilization against the
possibility of invasion.On the other hand, the blizzard of information coming in
from her agents and friends abroad compromised her ministers’ ability to make
decisions once the immediacy of the threat finally became clear — exactly the same
problem that confronted Philip and his ministers (see Chapter 2 above). In June
1588, for example, the normally punctilious Walsingham apologized to a correspondent
for not replying to letters because ‘I had never more business lying on
my handes sithence I entered this chardge, then at this present’. He was right: the
series ‘State Papers Holland’ (which formed but one part of Mr Secretary’s concerns)
in the Public Record Office includes six volumes for 1586, eight for 1587
and ten for 1588.^^
To be sure, Elizabeth and her ministers did not leave everything until the last
moment. They embargoed all merchant shipping (both native and foreign) in
English ports in October 1587, and took over all vessels that might play a useful
role in the kingdom’s defence; the following month they sent out commissioners
to tour the coastal shires and determine what defensive measures would be
required to resist invasion. In April 1588 the Privy Council named ‘overlords’ to
superintend coastal defence, ordered surveys of the places deemed most likely to
serve as beachheads for both the Armada and Parma’s forces, and commanded the
county militias to begin serious training (three days every fortnight). All three
measures came too late. The ‘overlords’ could not agree on the best strategy:
whether to ‘answer’ the enemy ‘at the sea side’, or to leave only a few garrisons in
coastal strongholds and withdraw most of the troops to a more defensible point
inland, there to ‘staye the enemy from speedy passage to London or the harte of the
realme’.^° Some of the surveys lacked rigour: the sketch of Weybourne Hope in
Norfolk, ‘made in haste this first of May 1588’, even lacked a scale - ‘reason would
a scair, the draftsman wrote apologetically, ‘but tyme permyts not’. And time
did not permit extensive construction of new fortifications either: Elizabethan
England in the Armada year boasted very few defences capable of resisting
artillery bombardment.^^ Finally, the county militias may have begun regular
training but relatively few men carried firearms and, at least in the northern
shires, even they received only one pound of powder for each fortnight’s training
so that ‘they have been driven hetherto for the most part to traine with false fires’
(that is to say, they could prime their firearms but lacked charge and bullet for
target practice). The quality of the militia, both there and elsewhere, often caused
The Execution of Grand Strategy
despair: the men of Dorset, it seemed to their commander, ‘will sooner kill one
another than annoye the enemye’.^^
Even the mounting trail of indiscretions - above all Cardinal Allen’s Admonition,
received by Burghley on 22 June 1588, and Don Bernardino de Mendoza’s
French translation of the Armada’s ‘Order of battle’, which specified that it ‘sailed
against the English fleet’ - only gradually revealed to Elizabeth the exact nature
of the peril that threatened to engulf her.®^ On 26 June she warned her principal
military commanders that Spain intended ‘not onlie of invadinge, but of makinge
a conquest also of this our realme’ with ‘an army put alredie to the seas’; and on
18 July, when news arrived that the Armada had left Lisbon, she ordered her
troops in Kent to move towards the coast in order to prevent the Spaniards from
landing.^^ On 27 July the queen finally grasped that Philip’s Grand Strategy
consisted of ‘the setting out of the great armie by sea in Spaine to ioyne with the
said force in Flaunders in the execucion of the said attempt’; but she mistook the
‘appointed place’, informing her county commanders that the enemy’s main force
would land in Essex (whereas Philip had selected Kent) and instructing them to
send their levies to Brentwood. Even then, work on the fortifications at Tilbury,
intended as the linchpin of England’s defence by land, only began on 3 August,
by which time scarcely 4,000 poorly armed men remained to defend Kent.^^ On
the 5th, when the Essex levies arrived at Tilbury with ‘not so much as one meal’s
provision of victual with them’, orders went out to stop all further contingents
where they stood ‘except they had provisions with them’.^^
It seems little enough to meet a crisis of such magnitude, but Elizabeth could
do no more. Her coffers lay empty: England’s export trade had passed through a
severe crisis in 1586—87 and tax revenues had consequently fallen, while subsidies
to the Dutch and spending on the navy had drained all her reserves. On 29 July
Burghley, the lord treasurer, calculated that he needed to find almost £40,000
(160,000 ducats) to pay and feed the crews aboard the ships mobilized against the
threat of invasion (petulantly observing, ‘I marvel that where so many are dead on
the seas the pay is not dead with them’), with over £10,000 (40,000 ducats) more
due to the Ordnance Office and sundry creditors. He had no idea where this
money could be found, because although some London merchants had offered to
lend, ‘I find no probability how to get money here in specie, which is our lack, but
by (foreign} exchange . . . which will not be done but in a long time’. Burghley
concluded on a melancholy note: ‘A man would wish, if peace cannot be had, that
the enemy would not longer delay, but prove, as I trust, his evil fortune’.*^
Philip soon obliged. Two days later, having secured the diplomatic isolation
and economic strangulation of England with consummate skill, his Armada
entered the Channel. One week later it anchored off Calais, within sight of the
still unsuspecting ‘appointed place’ for the landing, ready to escort Parma’s
invasion transports from Dunkirk to the Downs, a distance of only 70 kilometres.
His adversaries, by contrast, resembled Thomas Molyn^ux’s ‘man in the dark,
labouring under the weight of an unwieldy shield, mov(ing} slowly to and fro.
The Worst-kept Secret in Europe? 227
distracted and at a loss which way to go to guard against the stroke of an invisible
hand’.
‘Intelligence’, it has been noted, is an excellent ‘force multiplier’, but can
seldom be a ‘force equalizer’.The odds between a global empire and a small but
vulnerable jewel set in a silver sea remained simply too great to be overturned by
superior intelligence alone. Thanks to his simultaneous ability to maintain huge
military and naval forces for almost two years, and (through a remarkable combination
of disinformation and irresolution) to safeguard until the last moment a
vital element of surprise, Philip’s enterprise may indeed have become ‘the worstkept
secret in Europe’; yet, at least in strategic terms, it still stood a reasonable
chance of success. As Molyneux wrote in his 1759 study of‘combined operations’:
‘A strong army in a good fleet, which neither infantry or cavalry are able to follow,
cannot be hindered from landing where they please, whether in England, Erance
or any other country, unless they are prevented by a fleet of equal or sufficient
strength’.
What, however, constituted ‘sufficient’ strength in August 1588? After all, as
a diplomat in Paris shrewdly observed, the English did not need to destroy the
Armada in order to thwart Spain’s Grand Strategy: they only had to prevent it
from linking up with the forces assembled in Elanders in preparation for the
invasion.^” And, for that, everything depended upon two things: the ability of
Parma’s forces in Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort to join the Grand Fleet when it
arrived in the Narrow Seas, and Medina Sidonia’s capacity, at least temporarily, to
control the 70 kilometres of sea that separated Dunkirk from Dover.
228 The Execution of Grand Strategy
8 Was Parma Ready
In the middle of August 1588 a remarkable scene took place in the town square
of Dunkirk in Flanders. The duke of Parma, surrounded by his most illustrious
officers, issued a public challenge ‘not as captain-general of the armies of Philip II,
his uncle, but as Alexander Farnese, to satisfy anyone who blamed him for the
failure of the Enterprise of England’. No one present replied.^ Although for the
time being this challenge silenced all criticism of Parma ashore, naturally it had
no effect aboard the Spanish Armada. The fleet had been driven away from Calais
by English fireships on the night of 7/8 August, and then attacked and bombarded
at close range by the entire Royal Navy in a battle off the Flemish coast,
forcing it to sail northwards with the English in hot pursuit. Morale was low and,
according to the Armada’s senior military officer Don Francisco de Bobadilla,
everybody began ‘saying “I told you so” or “I knew this would happen” ’. Don
Francisco dismissed this as ‘trying to lock the stable door after the horse has
bolted’; but even he ventured a guarded criticism of Parma’s performance. While
admitting that many serious defects had been exposed since the expedition
left Lisbon, he noted that ‘In spite of all this, the duke [of Medina Sidonia}
managed to bring his fleet to anchor in Calais roads, just seven leagues from
Dunkirk ... [so that} if, on the day that we arrived there Parma had come out, we
should have carried out the invasion.’^ Other members of the Armada’s high
command proved more outspoken. Maestre de Campo Don Diego Pimentel,
captured by the Dutch after the battle off Gravelines, when asked about the fleet’s
plans should the duke of Parma’s forces not be able to join the fleet, replied
bitterly that:
They had never once thought that the duke, with 100 ships, a multitude of
coasters and barges, and an army of around 40,000 men, would not be able to
sally forth as planned; and that it seemed strange to him that the duke, having
such strength, should not have come out, or had not at least sent out enough
barges with musketeers to drive back the warships of Holland and Zealand to
enable his own warships to get out.‘*
229
230 The Execution of Grand Strategy
In September accusations began to fly thick and fast. According to Ambassador
Bernardino de Mendoza in Paris, virtually everyone in France believed that Parma
had deliberately tried to sabotage the enterprise. In Italy the duke of Savoy
(Philip’s son-in-law) offered to take over command of the Army of Flanders
because (according to the Spanish ambassador in Turin) in light of‘the accounts,
which seem worse every day, of how badly Parma has carried out his orders
(whether through malice or carelessness) to be ready and to aid Medina Sidonia,
it seems impossible to the duke (and to everyone else who considers the matter)
that Your Majesty can leave him in the Netherlands’; while a Venetian military
expert surmised that ‘Parma has reason to be, after King Philip, the most
desperate man in the world’. In October the Florentine ambassador in Madrid
reported that ‘all the Spaniards, and especially those who returned on the Armada’
both ‘in public and in private’ blamed its failure on ‘the delays of the duke of
Parma ... so the poor gentleman will need a good excuse’.^
The duke already realized his peril: the Armada had hardly moved into the
North Sea when he wrote to urge his uncle. Cardinal Farnese, who watched over
the family’s interests in Rome, to provide immediate refutation ‘if it should
happen that, either to exculpate the duke of Medina Sidonia or for some other
reason, the Spaniards wish to blame me for the misfortunes that have befallen
their nation’; and in October he sent a special envoy to Italy in order to defend his
conduct.^ Unfortunately, he chose for this mission Count Niccolo Cesi, a somewhat
blunt soldier raised in the Farnese household who seems to have blamed
Medina Sidonia instead. The outraged Spanish ambassador in Rome (who happened
to be Medina’s cousin) wrote to chide Parma for his disloyalty and pettiness;
‘It was God’s will, not your fault — and not Medina’s’. And in any case, the
ambassador added tartly, ‘explanations of how each commander behaved are due
to His Majesty and to nobody else’.^
The duke had already taken care of this, too. On the very day of the battle off
the Flemish coast he penned a preliminary ‘explanation’ to his master:
Those who came here off the fleet and have tried to give the impression that we
were not ready - because they could not see guns and munitions on my ships,
nor the troops aboard — are mistaken. Everything was prepared as it should have
been for the Channel crossing . . . Nothing would have been gained by embarking
in advance because the ships are so small that there is not even room to
turn round. Undoubtedly the men would have sickened, the food would have
putrefied and everything would have perished.
Nevertheless the king and his ministers remained doubtful. When Secretary of
State Don Juan de Idiaquez acknowledged receipt of this letter he began by noting
acerbically that it had been written at Bruges, ‘which is a long way from
Dunkirk’.^ Before long diplomats at the Court of Spain noted that ‘many people
are talking about the duke of Parma, since it seems to some that he has not done
everything he should’, and so in November Idiaquez became more direct. Having
231
assured the duke that ‘you have no truer servant in any country than me’, and after
dismissing ‘the lies sowed by the ignorant, the malicious, and those who are
looking for an excuse’, he regretted that there remained a ‘cloud to dispel’ because
some continued to assert that Parma would have needed two weeks to embark his
forces. Therefore, Idiaquez continued disarmingly but firmly:
So that we, your servants, can (when occasion arises) counter with confidence
and with substance the confusion over whether your army and its transports
were or were not ready when the Armada arrived, please will Your Excellency
tell me clearly on which day of August you intended to cross, had the fleet not
sailed away?^
This time Parma’s reply proved more cautious. He devoted several paragraphs to
disowning the conduct of Niccolo Cesi who, he claimed, had been sent to Rome
merely because Cardinal Farnese had fallen ill and it seemed important to have
someone at the papal Court to protect his reputation; he had never intended to
blame others. Next he defended the readiness of his forces.
On Monday 7 August, which was the day that [Medina Sidonia’s} Secretary
Arceo arrived [with the news that the Armada had reached Calais] and the day
I left Bruges, I had 16,000 infantry embarked in Nieuwpoort; and when I
arrived at Dunkirk, which was on Tuesday the 8th, the troops who were to
embark there had arrived before dawn and were beginning to board, and they
finished that same day together with the munitions and all the other things
which were ready and prepared. We were embarking at top speed {a furid\, and
we would certainly have finished. Had we not called a halt in view of the news
we received of the Armada, we could well have begun to sail out that same
night, and joined the Nieuwpoort contingent together with that from Dunkirk
in order to effect their task [i.e. the invasion] that night and part of the next
day, because they lacked nothing that they needed.
He concluded defiantly: ‘My statement that we needed no more than three days to
embark and be ready to sail forth was not made without justification.’
Some doubts still lingered, however. In June 1589 the duke felt moved to send
copies of all the relevant Armada documents to Court - nine letters from Medina
Sidonia to Parma; six letters back (and Parma’s instruction to one of the messengers);
memoranda of the artillery, munitions and food prepared for the embarkation;
all major letters to the king - together with another attempt at exculpation.
Perhaps rashly Parma also added some barbed comments about the unwisdom of
the entire enterprise, provoking a long response from the king which (in effect)
told him to stop complaining and to concentrate instead on current matters.
And there the issue seems to have rested, at least for Philip and his ministers.
So where did the truth lie? The disappearance of several key papers complicates
the search for certainty; the government’s archives in Brussels and Simancas, as
Was Parma Ready?
232
well as the Parma family papers in Naples and Parma, have all suffered major
losses/^ Furthermore, on the one hand, the surviving testimony of the duke
himself might have been biased, since upon its acceptance depended his reputation
and perhaps even his life; while the favourable opinion of those in his
entourage might be explained by a sense of personal loyalty or even by bribes/^
On the other hand, Parma had already made a number of enemies who, both then
and later, welcomed every opportunity to discredit him. Juan Moreo, who had
played a prominent part in negotiating the treaty of Joinville and later served
as chief liaison officer with the French Catholic League, noted in 1586 that ‘the
duke of Parma has assumed great authority over His Majesty’s affairs, and handles
them very imperiously’. A month later the new inspector-general of the Army of
Flanders, Juan Bautista de Tassis, likewise complained of Parma’s proprietorial
attitude and his resentment of criticism. Both men renewed their complaints
subsequently, contributing to the king’s later decision to recall Parma and
subject his entire administration to a rigorous visita (or judicial review), and so
their hostile retrospective evaluation of Parma’s conduct in 1588 also remains
suspect^. 14
The critical issue, however, is not whether absolutely everything in Flanders
had been perfected for the Enterprise of England in the first week of August 1588,
but whether enough had been done to permit the invasion force to join up with
the Armada, had it been able to remain in (or return to) the Narrow Seas. The
question ‘Was Parma ready?’, on which the success of the entire venture depended,
can only be answered by examining in detail the strategic, logistical and
operational evidence and the testimony of friends and foes alike.
In 1586, in response to Philip’s request for a blueprint for the invasion of
England, Parma had proposed a surprise attack on the coast of Kent by a force of
30,000 infantry and 500 cavalry drawn from the Army of Flanders carried by a
fleet of barges guarded by a small escort of warships. The king eventually rejected
this relatively simple strategy in favour of a combined operation that involved
dispatching a powerful warfleet from Spain which would drive away the Royal
Navy and, taking up station off Margate (a location subsequently referred to, for
security reasons, as ‘the appointed place’), protect Parma’s army while it crossed
from the ports of Flanders to the coast of Kent. The Armada would provide the
firepower both afloat and, in the shape of the magnificent siege-train it carried,
ashore; Parma would supply the invasion troops and their equipment, together
with the landing craft to transport them. Neither force could succeed without the
other.
Philip’s final instructions to Medina Sidonia, signed on i April 1588, made
clear that Parma’s invasion force could only set forth after the fleet had secured
local command of the sea; and a personal letter added the warning that:
As for ships to land troops, remember that the duke of Parma has a large
number of these — barges, coasters and other vessels suitable for this effect;
The Execution of Grand Strategy 233
but all his vessels are of this type, and not of {sufficient} size and force to
fight. That is why he must wait until the Armada arrives and secures his
crossi• ng. 16
Medina seems to have missed this point completely. In June, as his fleet
approached Cape Finisterre, he blithely informed Parma that ‘I am coming to find
Your Excellency, and will write to you when I enter the Channel to tell you where
this fleet is, so that Your Excellency can lead his [ships} out’. Medina even sent an
extra pinnace ‘so that Your Excellency can use it to tell me the state in which you
find yourself, when you can come out, and where we can meet’. The king, upon
reading a copy of this letter, immediately spotted the error, and scribbled in the
margin, ‘This cannot be unless he [Medina} makes it safe first.’ He lost no time in
firing off an anguished protest:
I will not repeat here what I have told you so often, except to say that . . . the
main point [of the plan} was to go on until you could join hands with the duke
my nephew ... I am sure you will have done this, and proceeded to that
location and made safe the duke’s transit, because his ships are not able to come
out and meet you further off until you have cleared the crossing of enemies:
they are merely transport vessels, not fighting ships.
Even this apparently clear statement seems to have missed its mark, for Medina
remained utterly convinced that Parma could bring out his ships to meet him off
‘Cape Margate’. Immediately after leaving Corunna, one month later, he once
again erroneously informed the king that ‘the intention is that the duke of Parma
should come out with his ships to the place where I arrive [that is, to the coast of
Kent} without making me wait for him for a moment. On this depends the whole
success of the campaign.’
Medina also sent a messenger to Flanders as soon as he had cleared the coast of
Spain. As he led the fleet into the English Channel one week later he complained
to the king that he had still not heard a word from Parma, ‘which amazes me’, so
that ‘we are travelling almost with our eyes closed’.Accordingly he wrote again
to Flanders as the fleet sailed past Portland Bill on i August to ‘ascertain from
Your Excellency what I should do, and where I should wait, in order for us to join
forces’, and with the same courier Don Francisco de Bobadilla sent a letter urging
Parma ‘to come out in person as soon as you see this fleet in the anchorage that it
should reach [i.e. “the appointed place”}, even if it cannot be with all the ships and
troops that you have’. Off the Isle of Wight on 4 August, still without word from
Flanders, Medina wrote once more to remind Parma that ‘Your Excellency should
be ready to put to sea and find me’ literally at a moment’s notice. Off Beachy Head
on the 5 th, after three days of long-range bombardment ‘from dawn until dusk’
without being able to force a fleet action, it occurred to Medina that perhaps the
small warships assembled by Parma in Dunkirk might be able to close with the
English and engage them until his bigger vessels could get alongside and board.
Was Parma Ready?
234
He therefore dispatched a fourth messenger to beg Parma to send him ‘40 or 50
flyboats or other small and light warships’ immediately.^^
In spite of all this, no word had come from Flanders by the next morning, when
the Armada sighted the French coast near Boulogne. What should Medina
Sidonia do now? The English fleet remained only five kilometres astern, so that
anchoring off the Kent coast near Margate - as Philip had instructed - no longer
made sense. So the duke resolved to
steer a course for the Calais roads, which we reached at 4 p.m. There were
different opinions on whether to anchor in that roadstead, and most favoured
going on; but the duke, understanding from the pilots he brought with him
that if he proceeded further the currents would force him out of the Channel
and into the North Sea, determined to anchor before Calais, seven leagues from
Dunkirk, where Parma could come and join him. And so at 5 p.m. he ordered
the whole fleet to drop anchor.
Medina now wrote to ask Parma once again for the ‘40 or 50 flyboats’ so that ‘we
can hold off the fleet of the enemy until Your Excellency can come with all the rest
[of your forces} and we can capture some port where this Armada can anchor in
complete safety’.
Medina Sidonia’s assumptions here betray a fatal lack of familiarity with the
realities of naval warfare: one cannot imagine his predecessor, Santa Cru2, making
the same elementary mistake. It never seems to have occurred to the duke that all
his messengers had either to run the gauntlet of the hostile ships lurking in the
Channel, or else to make for the French coast and hope to find a relay of horses
ready to convey them overland all the way to Flanders. It was foolish to assume
that they would arrive — let alone return with an answer — much before the
Armada reached ‘the appointed place’. In the event, the first messenger dispatched
in June in ‘a well-armed pinnace with oars’ made good time, reaching Flanders in
eleven days; but the storms that dispersed the Armada off Corunna soon made
nonsense of his message. The envoy sent from the Bay of Biscay on 25 July in an
‘armed pinnace with six oars’ took only seven days to reach Parma, who at once
began to mobilize his invasion forces. The next messenger, however, took five days
to travel from Portland Bill and only reached Parma’s headquarters on the 6th.
Later that same day, the messenger dispatched from the fleet off the Isle of Wight
arrived; and the following morning news came that the Armada had already
reached Calais! So although Medina repeatedly expressed regret at his slow
progress, and sought by every means to increase his speed exactly as Philip had
exhorted him to do, from the perspective of the Army of Flanders he arrived far
too soon.^
Parma’s efforts to make contact with the fleet met with no better success. On
21 June Captain Francesco Moresin, dispatched by Medina off Cape Finisterre,
arrived in Flanders with news that the Armada had begun its journey towards the
Channel. Then came silence.Parma did not discover until 21 July — ironically
The Execution of Grand Strategy 235
the very day they set sail again — that Medina Sidonia and his ships had been
sheltering in Corunna for the previous month. On the 30th he sent another vessel
with messages for the fleet, and more followed on 31 July and on i, 2 and 5
August.Only the last one reached its destination: after a whole day at Calais,
Medina Sidonia finally received a letter from Parma that must have made his heart
miss a beat, for it was dated 3 August, and only replied to his letter of 25 July,
revealing Parma’s total ignorance of the fleet’s proximity.Medina’s spirits would
have sunk even further had he known the reaction of Parma and his entourage to
his later letters: not only did they totally reject Medina’s plea to send out the small
warships on their own ‘because of the risk that they would be lost, along with all
the men on board, before they reached the Spanish fleet’; but they remained
adamant that Medina should defeat the English fleet and take up station off
Margate ‘in order to secure the passage from Dunkirk to England for all the
soldiers assembled in Flanders’ according to the king’s masterplan.^^
Clearly, given the almost total breakdown in communications between the two
commanders, Parma could not possibly have had his men aboard the ships on 6
August, ready to meet Medina ‘at a moment’s notice’, because he did not know
until that day that the Armada had even entered the Channel, let alone reached
Calais. His critics aboard the fleet - Bobadilla, Pimentel and the rest - simply
failed, like Medina Sidonia, to understand the situation. Idiaquez and most of
Philip’s other ministers therefore exculpated Parma on this count; but they
remained extremely interested in the date at which Parma could have been ready,
had the Armada somehow managed to stay off Calais.
No one at the time denied that an impressive force for the invasion of England had
been assembled in Elanders. By late June 1588 some 27,000 men waited restlessly
in their cramped billets near the coast (see Table Parma had prepared a
meticulous embarkation schedule, including the precise itinerary and the
sequence for each unit’s march to either Nieuwpoort (for the 18,000 Walloons,
Germans and Italians) or Dunkirk (for the 9,000 Spaniards, Irish, Burgundians
and cavalry); and he had supervised two ‘rehearsals’ to ensure that everyone
understood their role.^^ On 2 August, on receipt of Medina Sidonia’s message that
he had arrived off the Lizard, Parma placed his forces on alert; and on the 6th, on
learning that the Armada’s approach continued, all units began to move to the
ports. The fact that almost 27,000 men managed to embark within the following
thirty-six hours - no mean feat for an army in any age! - testifies to the military
effectiveness of both Parma and his troops.
Many obstacles had been overcome in order to achieve this goal. To begin with,
concentrating those 9,000 Spaniards and Italians in Elanders required the organization
of a complex itinerary, by sea to Genoa and thence via Lombardy, over the
Alps and along the Spanish Road to the Low Countries.Moreover, conditions in
Flanders - ravaged by almost a decade of war - caused heavy losses once the troops
got there: in February 1588 Parma estimated that the newly raised Spanish and
Italian units had diminished by more than one-third, with many more men sick.
Was Parma Ready?
236 The Execution of Grand Strategy
The invasion force for England, 1588
‘Nation’ Units Men
Spaniards 4 tercios 6,000
Italians 2 tercios 3,000
Irish I tercio 1,000
Burgundians I regiment 1,000
Walloons 7 regiments 7,000
Germans 4 regiments 8,000
Cavalry 22 companies 1,000
Total 27,000
Table 6 Philip expected the principal invasion force for the Enterprise of England to come from
his Army of Flanders, and organized the dispatch of substantial reinforcements from most of his
dominions — Spain, Spanish Italy, Franche-Comte and the Netherlands — as well as welcoming
Catholic soldiers from Germany and Ireland. In addition, thousands more troops garrisoned the
loyal towns and fortresses of the Low Countries, ready to defend them should either the Dutch or
the French attempt an attack during the absence of the invasion army.
This high wastage continued. The tercio of Don Antonio de Zuniga, which had
entered the Low Countries from Italy ‘not only without arms but also without
clothes, and they came badly treated’, numbered 2,662 men in July 1587 but only
1,500 by April 1588. Of the 9,000 Italian infantry who marched to Flanders in
the summer of 1587, only 3,615 remained the following April.Moreover, once
arrived, every unit required food, clothes and lodgings — in a country where food
prices stood at unprecedentedly high levels — as they waited month after month
for the fleet. The king’s repeated insistence, from September 1587 onwards, that
the Armada’s departure was ‘imminent’ (even though other correspondents
tended to be less sanguine) compelled Parma to keep his entire invasion force close
to the coast, in areas that had been devastated and depopulated by bitter fighting,
for almost a year.^^ In the words of an English observer:
{It} may justly give cause of wonder how so many lyvynge in a wasted
and greately spoyled country . . . should notwithstandinge be victualled ... I
observed in our journey from Ostend to Burbourghe all round about, viewinge
ye contrie for ye space of 40 miles {about 70 kilometres} in length, and
somewhat more, that ye villages were desolated, and raysed in a manner to the
grounde, noe inhabitante to be founde in them, scarcely any houses but here
and there scattered standinghe to dwelle in.^"^
Parma scored a major logistical triumph in maintaining almost 30,000 men
amid this unpromising environment — albeit at great personal cost: his household
accounts and correspondence reveal numerous loans taken out in 1587—88 from a
remarkable variety of sources (he even borrowed from the nuns of St Catherine of
Siena and the Jesuit College in Rome).^^ He performed another minor masterpiece
in equipping them all for the invasion. According to Alonso Vazquez, specially
237
constructed magazines at both Nieuwpoort and Dunkirk overflowed with munitions
and provisions, with more stored in nearby houses and monasteries; according
to a Dunkirk diarist, the Greyfriars convent in the town alone housed 1,000
tons of gunpowder. It had a narrow escape on 6 March when a small Dutch boat
sailed into Dunkirk, allegedly carrying butter and cheese. The harbour was ‘full
of vessels from the front to the back , forcing the new arrival to anchor some way
off, so that when the bombs concealed in its hold exploded that night they only
destroyed two of Parma s ships, severely damaging five more and breaking all the
glass windows in the town.^^ Stockpiling continued unabated: 7,000 pairs of
wading boots, accoutrements for 3,000 horses, straps to keep horses stable on
ships . . . Some English spies at Bruges in March saw men loading ‘powder,
bullett, match, a great sort of bridges for horses with crosseledges, scalling
ladders, mattockes, spades, shovells and hatchets’; others near Dunkirk in June
spotted forty flatte bottome boats . . . prepared a purpose to carry horse{s}, for
they have within them both racke and manger and other necessaries’; others still
noted ovens to bake bread aboard some ships.Lacunae of course remained. Only
two weeks before the Armada arrived Don Luis de Queralt, the commander of one
of the newly raised Spanish tercios scheduled for the invasion, begged Parma to
‘order that we should be given weapons because (as your highness well knows) we
lack them . A previous complaint had produced arms for two companies, and
Queralt promised that ‘I shall get the troops out once or twice a week, as I have
already begun to do, and place them in formation and drill them as much as I can’;
but he could not yet complete the training of the rest of his men.^° All armies have
their weak links, however: notwithstanding the shortcomings of some of Queralt’s
men, everyone agreed that Parma s invasion force was in superb shape for the
enterprise.
Evidence concerning the ships assembled to carry the troops is more equivocal.
As Sir William Winter, with a lifetime of naval experience behind him, observed:
Whereas it is said that the prince {of Parma}’s strength is 30,000 soldiers, then
I assure your honour it is no mean quantity of shipping that must serve for the
transporting of that number and that which doth appertaine to them, without
the which I do not think they will put forth; 300 sail must be the least; and,
one with another, to be counted 60 ton.^‘
At first, Parma possessed nothing like this total. Indeed his initial plan of April
1586 had devoted little attention to marine matters: he wrote vaguely of using
barges without specifying either numbers or size, and ministers in Madrid had to
ascertain these details from the messenger who brought the plan to Court. Then
in November 1587 the duke nonchalantly suggested that the barges - on which
the success of the whole plan now depended — might not be capable of sailing to
England after all: ‘I am not convinced that the barges can perform the service that
we expect of them because, although they sail the seas, they are light and small
ships that need very calm weather and can do nothing . . . but go where the winds
Was Parma Ready?
238
take them’. The meticulous care that Parma devoted to planning every movement
of his troops overland contrasted sharply with his casual attitude towards the far
more complex task of transporting them across the Channel to England.^^
Eventually, however, a flotilla of suitable size took shape. Undoubtedly the
duke exaggerated when he claimed in the autumn of 1587 that he had enough
ships for the crossing: according to his own records, only 67 vessels then lay in
Dunkirk harbour, and they lacked 370 guns and 1,630 sailors."*^ By June 1588,
however, an English spy reported some 70 merchant ships of between 50 and 60
tons’ burthen embargoed in Dunkirk ‘and most of them now laden with vitayle’.
In addition, ‘There be at Dunkirk twelve great ships of seven or eight score
[= 140—160} tonne apeece; of which twelve, threfe} of them have twenty peces of
cast ordinance of fawcons and fawconnets, ten of a side; the rest have but thre cast
peces of ordinance and a fowler a side’. He also saw twelve ‘flyboats’ of around 80
tons, eight of them armed with six small cast-iron guns, and eight more ships of
between 40 and 50 tons’ burthen, five of them armed with six pieces and the rest
just with stern- and bow-chasers. ‘All these men of war are redie and their sayles
aborde,’ claimed the English report, as were a considerable number of merchantmen.
However, ‘It is not apparant . . . where there should be had halfe [the}
saylers sufficient to man the foresayd ships’; furthermore, ‘These ships be open and
have no defence when they be horded.
According to the records of the Flanders fleet itself, by the summer of 1588
almost 100 vessels — 26 warships (several displacing over 150 tons), 21 barges,
together with perhaps 50 merchant ships - some hired in Hamburg - rode in
Dunkirk harbour. Almost 200 more boats, most of them barges, waited in and
around Nieuwpoort."*^ As soon as he heard of the Armada’s departure from Lisbon,
Parma ordered all seamen to report to their ships upon pain of death, and a week
later (according to an English source) he ‘came to Dunkirke and viewed the fleete,
and rowed out of the mouth of the haven to viewe it’.^*’
A number of experienced English seamen thus seemed convinced that Parma’s
fleet lay more or less ready to sail by July 1588. Dutch observers agreed: on 14
July, on the basis of detailed reports, the States of Zeeland concluded that Parma’s
forces stood ready to embark for any destination he chose: ‘with his ships in such
readiness that they could set sail in 10 to 12 days’.On 7 August Parma
apparently wrote to tell Medina (as he later told the king) that his forces would be
ready to put to sea in just two more days.^^ Some Spanish eyewitnesses, however,
saw matters in a different light. Don Juan Manrique de Lara, colonel of one of the
German regiments scheduled to embark at Nieuwpoort and a member of Parma’s
council of war, complained just afterwards that ‘We found the ships unfinished
and none of them contained a single piece of artillery or anything to eat’.‘^^ Two
envoys sent by Medina Sidonia to ascertain the situation in Flanders — the
inspector-general of the fleet, Don Jorge Manrique, and the duke’s secretary,
Hieronimo Arceo — concluded that Parma could not be ready in time and
frantically exhorted him to greater efforts. Only Arceo, however, seems to have
committed his complaint to paper, informing Medina Sidonia that Parma would
The Execution of Grand Strategy
239
not be ready for two more weeks.’® According to Alonso Vazquez, ‘although it is
true that the magazines of Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort contained large quantities of
provisions and munitions, with the rest of the equipment and gear that had been
prepared, they were not embarked; nor were many ships equipped as they should
have been, on account of the speed that he [Parma} required, although they were
ready to go \con las vergas en altoV Vazquez concluded: ‘In my opinion, speaking
as an eyewitness, it was rash to hazard such a powerful army in weak and
defenceless vessels like those prepared by Parma.’’^ Don Carlos Coloma, a subaltern
at Dunkirk m 1588, subsequently penned an equally damning verdict in his
memoirs: ‘Whatever its cause, it is certain - and I saw for myself - that during
this time [the summer of 1588} the preparation of the fleet in Dunkirk proceeded
very slowly, so that when it was necessary to embark the Spanish infantry, not
even the flagship ... was ready to sail.’ Nevertheless, Coloma continued, as soon
as Parma heard that the Armada had reached Calais,
He resolved to embark, notwithstanding all other considerations and all
dangers. The sergeant-majors of the tercios immediately distributed the embarkation
orders, which were obeyed at once, albeit with much laughter among
the soldiers \aunque con harta risa de los soldados^ because many of them were
required to embark in ships on which no shipwright or ship’s carpenter had
worked. They were without munitions, without provisions, without sails.
The patent disparity between these assessments and those of the English and
Dutch spies is at first sight hard to reconcile. To begin with, however, the
incompleteness of Parma s flagship, upon which several Spanish observers commented,
can be discounted: Alonso Vazquez specifically stated that it lacked only
some of Its cageworks and a lick of gold paint, adding that many a ship had lost
more of its superstructure in a storm and still successfully completed its journey.
The charge that other vessels lacked provisions and sails was likewise refuted not
only by Vazquez but also by another contemporary, Antonio Carnero: ‘I know
from trustworthy persons who were both present and involved, that only two or
three ships were not ready.’ Carnero continued:
Those who say that victuals were lacking are wrong, because a vast quantity of
baked bread, biscuit, herring and flour was ready to be sent wherever the army
might be. It was not embarked since it was not necessary to do so, [both}
because the troops were to cross in a single tide of six hours, in which time few
provisions would be consumed, and because special boats were designated to
take the victuals as soon as the troops were aboard.”
Perhaps, for a relatively short journey, troops could even be crammed aboard boats
‘like sardines’ - as occurred for a later celebrated cross-Channel expedition from
Dunkirk, in 1940, as well as in other amphibious operations by the Army of
Flanders (see Plate 30).
Was Parma Ready?
240
Plate 30 Sketch of Spanish troops
(1605). Great uncertainty surrounds
the adequacy of the ships and
supplies assembled by the duke of
Parma to transport his troops to
England in the summer of 1588.
Some soldiers complained that they
were crushed into the appointed
boats without food. Parma, however,
anticipated that the Channel
crossing would only take between
eight and twelve hours, so that on
the one hand few provisions would
be needed for the actual journey
(and in any case he had embarked
these on other ships) and, on the
other hand, the troops could be
packed fairly tightly into the boats.
This drawing of how the Spanish
army crossed the Rhine, in order to
make a surprise attack on Holland,
showed some possibilities.
The records of the Flanders fleet itself reveal a stream of payments for preparing
the ships, right down to painting their names in gold, and adding a sea-horse
at the prow. Parma’s flagship had a ‘royal standard’ of red damask bearing the
Spanish coat of arms on one side and a depiction of Christ crucified, flanked by the
Virgin Mary and St John the Baptist, on the other; other ships would fly ensigns
of yellow taffeta displaying the cross of Burgundy (also shown in Plate 30), the
arms of the seventeen provinces of the Netherlands, and of Spain. The flags were
all ‘scattered with flames of fire’, as a sign that they would be unfurled in war;
furthermore, according to an English source, the Spanish companies at Dunkirk
‘sett up their ensignes in the shippes wherein they were to embarke’ in readiness.
Parma also made his own preparations: in May 1588 his personal treasurer
purchased the materials to make a special ‘rain cape for His Highness, decorated
with silver thread’.^"*
The balance of opinion on the readiness of the ships thus also favours Parma —
not least because the criticisms of unpreparedness came mainly from those who
Was Parma Ready? 241
recorded their recollections later (Vazcjuez and Coloma) and entirely from
landsmen with limited experience of how swiftly a vessel could be made seaworthy.
No doubt some ships did indeed remain unready on 8 August 1588, but
the majority must have been prepared because, on the one hand, so many Dutch
and English sailors deemed them to be so and, on the other, the embarkation of
almost the entire invasion force actually took place. If serious problems had arisen
in this area, Don Jorge Manrique and other well-placed observers would surely
have mentioned them in their detailed reports to the king.^^
Once again, it is easy to forget how many obstacles had been overcome in order
to create this invasion fleet at Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort. To begin with, Parma
had originally envisaged launching the invasion of England from Antwerp, where
he had captured the seventy or so armed vessels (some of them large) that defended
the city during the siege of 1584-85. Although the Dutch continued to blockade
the River Scheldt, the duke hoped to be able to bring out a fleet led by his
flagship, the galleon Sant Alessandro of some 600 tons’ displacement (armed with
fifty bronze guns) and a large galley (specially built by a team of carpenters
brought from Genoa), together with some thirty other warships (including eight
new ‘flyboats’), and various troop transports. Opinions on their value differed.
One English intelligence report early in 1588 ranked the ‘31 brave ships of war’
riding before Antwerp as good as any on our side , whereas according to another,
it is a common opinion that she fParma s flagship} will never be able to brook the
sea before she be new made fi.e. totally rebuilt}. The rest are ordinary poor
things’.'^
Whatever their effectiveness, however, everything depended upon getting the
Sant Alessandro and her consorts out of the Scheldt. Parma’s capture in August
1587 of the port of Sluis at the mouth of the estuary, containing a considerable
number of additional seagoing vessels, opened up the possibility of the big ships
sailing down the Scheldt, where they would ‘liberate’ the flotilla confined in Sluis
before proceeding to Nieuwpoort and Dunkirk to embark the invasion army.
Parma carried out a personal reconnaissance of the estuaries and channels along
the north coast of Flanders but found that between 130 and 140 Dutch ships lay
in wait just below Antwerp to forestall precisely this manoeuvre. He reluctantly
concluded that none of the Antwerp ships could reach Sluis in safety by that route.
Resourceful as ever, the duke decided to leave the larger warships where they lay,
in order to pin down the Dutch blockaders, and move the rest to Sluis along the
inland waterways. Pioneers worked to deepen the canals and to break some dikes
in order to increase both the level and the flow of water until in March 1588 all
the smaller craft from Antwerp and other ports along the Scheldt moved to
Ghent. Thence over 100 ships (including the large galley) eventually reached
Sluis. At the same time, some 200 seamen recruited in Hamburg and Liibeck
arrived overland to reinforce the crews aboard the flotilla.^^
Inevitably the Dutch noticed these developments and almost immediately
placed another blockade squadron before Sluis, ruling out any thought of a sortie
from there too. So Parma set his pioneers to work again, this time to deepen the
Plate 31 A map of the Dutch-held enclave around Ostend by the English cartographer Robert Adams in 1590
reveals the topography of one of the embarkation areas for the invasion army two years earlier. Near Nieuwpoort
(on the right) Adams has marked ‘the slu[i]ce throroughe the whiche the Duke of Parma intended to bringe his
smalle shallopps for England’. The duke’s headquarters, at Bruges, appear at the upper left; the other port of
embarkation, Dunkirk, is off the map to the right.
rivers and to dig new canals in order to link Sluis with Nieuwpoort. On 5 April
they opened a ‘cutt’ 10 metres wide and almost 2 metres deep which, even
though the larger and better-armed vessels had once again to be left behind,
allowed the barges and other flat-bottomed craft to reach the seacoast (see
Plate 31).^^
All in all it was a most impressive achievement. Against heavy odds, by the
beginning of June 1588, seven merchantmen and 173 flat-bottomed craft, divided
into three squadrons, now rode in Nieuwpoort harbour, ready to join the warships
and transports at Dunkirk, and as soon as he received news of the Armada’s arrival
off Calais, Parma not only started to board his troops in the Flemish ports, but also
ordered the ships in the Scheldt to move downstream in order to draw off more
Dutch blockade ships.However, the total tonnage prepared at the two ports of
embarkation remained relatively small - the largest of the warships displaced only
180 tons, the average merchantmen under 150, most barges barely 100 - so that
Was Parma Ready? 243
the overall displacement of the 26 warships, 55 merchantmen and 194 barges
prepared for Parma’s 27,000 troops can scarcely have exceeded 30,000 tons.^'
This total must be put in perspective. Sir William Winter, as already noted,
thought that 30,000 men and their provisions would require 300 ships with an
average displacement of 90 tons, or 27,000 tons in all. Parma seems to have met
that target. Perhaps, however. Winter underestimated: after all, the Dutch assembled
no fewer than 1,450 vessels for their surprise seaborne attack on Flanders in
1600, a total displacement of over 150,000 tons for the lOO-kilometre journey of
their 18,000 troops. Even so, small ships predominated, many of exactly the same
type (barges normally used on inland waterways) as those assembled by Parma;
only sixteen warships accompanied the Dutch expedition.Furthermore the
records of the port of Dunkirk reveal that local merchants at this time frequently
used ships built for inland use for trade with Dover and the Downs.The
available data thus fully confirm Parma’s claim that his ships, both at Dunkirk
and at Nieuwpoort, were ‘ready enough’ for embarkation: on a purely technical
level, if the Dutch could effect a seaborne invasion with barges in 1600, and if
Dunkirkers could sail them to England for trade, Parma could also use them to
carry his army across the Channel.
As soon as Philip s decision to invade England became public knowledge, Parma
recognized that his forces would be unable to cross to England in safety until the
Armada from Spain arrived in the Channel. As late as November 1587 he
apparently still contemplated launching a surprise attack as soon as the Grand
Fleet approached and drew off the Royal Navy (see p. 197 above), but the
following month he mentioned for the first time the appearance of a Dutch
blockade squadron off the Flemish coast and warned the king that the Armada
would now also need to clear the way for his forces to come out and reach ‘the
appointed place’. From now on he repeatedly drew attention to this problem in his
letters to the king. In April 1588 he lamented that:
The enemy have . . . been forewarned and acquainted with our plans, and have
made all preparations for their defence; so that it is manifest that the enterprise,
which at one time was so easy and safe, can now only be carried out with
infinitely greater difficulty, and at much larger expenditure of blood and trouble.
I am anxiously awaiting news of the departure of the duke of Medina
Sidonia with his fleet ... (to protect} my passage across, so that not the smallest
hitch should occur in a matter of such vital importance. Failing this, and the due
cooperation of the duke with me, both before and during the landing, as well as
^f'^^^'wards, I can hardly succeed as I desire in Your M^ajesty’s service.
In June, on receipt of Medina Sidonia’s letter asking where the two forces should
meet (p. 233 above) Parma angrily observed to the king that ‘Medina seems to
believe that I should set out to meet him with my small ships, which is simply
impossible. These vessels cannot run the gauntlet of warships; they cannot even
244 The Execution of Grand Strategy
withstand large waves.’ The king only received this particular communication on
7 August - the very day that nemesis (in the shape of the English fireships) struck
his fleet — and perceptively (if vainly) annotated this passage: ‘Please God let there
not be some slip-up here.’^^ Philip and Medina Sidonia had totally failed to grasp
Parma’s precise situation.
Don Bernardino de Mendoza and others believed that these various excuses
masked the fact that Parma had systematically (but covertly) striven to sabotage
an enterprise that he regarded as doomed to failure. Certainly, although the king
first requested a plan of operations from Parma on 29 December, the duke did not
comply until 20 April, offering the somewhat lame excuse that he had been ‘busy’;
and he furthermore chose to send his plan with a personal messenger who took
virtually the longest possible route to the Spanish Court, overland through
Luxemburg, Franche-Comte and Italy and then by galley to Spain. In consequence,
the plan only arrived in Madrid on 20 June with the result that, as Parma
must have realized, the invasion could not possibly take place in 1586 — thus
buying him a whole extra year in which to continue the reconquest of the
Netherlands. Then in 1587 and again in 1588 the duke bombarded his master
with complaints about the role he had been assigned, about the lack of secrecy,
about the absence of the promised support from Spain, and (occasionally) even
about the wisdom of persisting with the enterprise.
This hardly amounts to ‘sabotage’, however, because whatever his inner misgivings
Parma worked ceaselessly (as demonstrated above) both at collecting men,
supplies and ships close to viable ports of embarkation, and at concealing his true
intentions from the Dutch and English in order to minimize the risk of them
being bottled up. Thus besides shifting his troops and ships around, he also stayed
away from Brussels, his administrative capital, for a whole year, moving relentlessly
about Flanders and Brabant both to superintend preparations for the invasion
in the four designated ports and also to spread confusion concerning his
target.In this he proved entirely successful. On 12 July 1588, when the Dutch
admiral cruising off the Flemish coast suddenly realized that Parma’s entire army
could sail out from Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort at any moment, he commanded only
24 ships, whereas 32 ships cruised off Sluis, 135 blockaded Antwerp and a further
100 stood guard further north around the entrance to the Zuider Zee and the
Ferns.Moves by the Dutch federal government to concentrate more vessels off
Flanders ran into bitter opposition from the political leaders of Holland and
Zealand who, as late as 10 August — two days after the battle off Gravelines — still
feared that Philip really intended to attack them.^^ As Lord Henry Seymour,
commanding the English squadron in the Narrow Seas, correctly remarked: ‘I
think they [the Dutch} desire more to regard their own coast than ours’, while
Admiral Howard of Effingham noted with irritation as he closed with the Spanish
fleet that ‘There is not one Flushinger nor Hollander at the seas’.
The nature of the Dutch blockade has been much misunderstood: their vessels
did not lurk, as often stated, at the very entrance to the harbours of the Flemish
coast. Rather, as Alonso Vazquez noted:
Whenever Parma wanted to join his two fleets [in Nieuwpoort and Dunkirk},
it would be easy for him to do so, because the seacoast was clear of enemy ships.
They could not come inshore because of the guard mounted by the places that
secured it, besides the many currents and sandbanks created by the tides in the
entire Narrow Seas.^°
Contemporary cartography makes the position clear. A map prepared in 1586
shows the banks of Flanders , with the safe routes for shipping considerably
offshore (Plate 32); and subsequent views of the approaches to Dunkirk show the
Dutch blockade ships some distance offshore and the larger Dunkirk ships
anchored securely between a large sandbank, ‘Het Schuurken’, and the batteries
on the shore. According to a detailed description of the two ports, sent to (and
annotated by) Philip in 1583, the roadstead between Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort
could easily shelter a large fleet, while that off Mardijk (between Dunkirk and
Gravelines) could be used for an embarkation.^^
The capacity of the two harbours has also been misrepresented, with some
contemporaries (including Medina Sidonia) suggesting that Parma’s fleet could
only have emerged at a spring tide.^^ But Parma explicitly denied this:
Although with some winds the water level falls and we need spring tides,
very few vessels are affected; and even supposing this should happen and we
could not use them, but could undertake the task with the rest, I have
never . . . thought of waiting for the spring tides or of holding back for a
moment for this reason.
According to a description of the ports specially prepared in 1583 for Philip,
Dunkirk harbour contained four metres of water at low tide and more than five at
high tide, with five and almost six respectively at Nieuwpoort, and about one
metre more during the March and August spring tides. Moreover, ships displacing
up to 300 tons could and did enter Dunkirk on a regular basis at this time.^^
Even so, getting Parma s entire fleet to sea from the two Flemish harbours
would not have been easy. As Antonio Carnero noted in his memoirs, it seems
unlikely that the 300 vessels assembled could have moved out on a single tide:
the first ships would therefore have needed to wait in the roadstead for the rest.^^
But this might not have proved as difficult as it sounds, for not only did the
Dutch blockade squadron off the Flemish seacoast lack numbers: it also lacked
firepower.
In January 1584 the prince of Orange had asked the States-General to sanction
the construction of ‘ten good warships’ of between 180 and 400 tons but they
refused, authorizing instead only a few small coastal protection vessels.It is true
that between November 1587 and July 1588 the Republic commandeered 180
vessels for its defence, but only 55 of these reinforced the Zealand fleet (responsible
for blockading Flanders), the largest displacing but 300 tons; more significantly,
in July 1588 the Royal Navy peremptorily rejected the 23 warships sent
Was Parma Ready? 245
p ^
3 o -o
o> d ^ i-L
1 = °
53 S <u
4c-d> c/0
• S5 < ^ <y\
a• "OSJ
8 fii
JS
^ -a
ll^
^S QD 4^-*
r^ c« )"-d° S ^ -C
c 3
I ^ ••
i-J 4_<=u S J(U3 So H. 2
2 -c vj
a,
a,
e
"<Ou <>u S p^ I 6
c3 li2:
C3 Oh
33 d J^3 .is;
-P 5<u3u aduj X
3 p ‘t/, >N o 1>
53 ^53
O t/) ™ 3
1^> -(dU „
-C W) 5 (J
6 -S P
8. g
Oo H
i> .S
S(U V0O0 53 a^o Su3 ::' 6 ^
i
however, the publication of Waghenaer’s Mariner’s Mirror in 1585, with a licence that prevented anyone from bringing out a rival product for ten years,
forced Haeyen to look elsewhere. He therefore sent - or more likely sold - his work to Spain.
Was Parma Ready? 247
by Holland to assist in England’s defence as too small and too poorly equipped to
be of service.Although the States-General later hired two substantial merchantmen
— one displacing 600 tons, the other 750 — the cost of manning them was
deemed so high that they never put to sea. Indeed the expense of crews for even
the smaller ships was such that neither Holland nor Zealand managed to pay their
sailors any wages between January and November 1588.^^
So by early August, when the Armada arrived off Calais, Parma’s forces faced a
mere 35 Dutch ships, albeit reinforced by some 1,200 musketeers specially
trained for warfare at sea.^^ Some 40 larger vessels lay in reserve, but they too were
relatively small and their total displacement scarcely exceeded 7,000 tons: only
two displaced over 300 tons, and the largest of them carried but 20 guns (all of
9-pounder calibre or less).^° The navy maintained by the States of Holland
likewise included few powerful ships — the largest carried 14 guns; only four
carried 10 or more — and in any case they did not appear off Dunkirk until late
August, long after this crisis had passed.The English Narrow Seas squadron
under Seymour, for its part, remained mostly at the Downs.
Hardly surprisingly, Justinus of Nassau and his inadequate force proved unable
to close the port of Dunkirk totally. Parma managed to send out one ship on 17
February 1588, four on i March, one on i May, three on 7 June, one each on 30
and 31 July and i and 2 August, three on the 5th and three more on the 12th —
all to seek out the Armada — while two Armada vessels entered Dunkirk to take
on stores and left again shortly afterwards. Lord Burghley, upon reading about
this, scribbled angrily in the margin: ‘Wherefore serveth Justin and his shipps of
Zeeland
In defence of ‘Justin’ it should be recalled that maintaining a close blockade in
the age of sail always proved extremely difficult. Storms could and did blow ships
off station, allowing enemy vessels to slip out. This happened frequently off
Dunkirk in the unusually inclement days of July 1588, and again at the beginning
of August when a ‘tempest forced all the ships of war . . . that lay before
Dunkirk and Nieuport to come in’. Although they had returned by the 4th, on 16
August Seymour wrote that ‘The weather has been such as no man hath been able
to look upon the coast of Flanders this seven or eight days past’.^^ Even in less
boisterous conditions it might prove difficult to intercept a fast-moving blockaderunner:
in early July, for example, Seymour lay in wait for one of Parma’s ships to
emerge but admitted that it was ‘a hundred to one she may escape me’. Meanwhile
the ‘great gallee’ apparently managed to get out of Sluis with 100 Italian soldiers
and 200 oarsmen aboard (although storms drove it to Texel, where it fell into
Dutch hands).
So on 8 August 1588, as Parma’s meticulous embarkation process neared
completion, Justinus and his thirty-five small and poorly gunned ships found
themselves off Dunkirk virtually alone, ‘with no Holland ships in sight’. He
warned his masters, the States of Zealand, that he was too weak to withstand alone
the entire power of the enemy concentrated in the area.*^ What chance existed,
then, that Parma’s invasion force might have got to sea?
248
The available evidence demonstrates that an impressive army stood ready by
the coast of Flanders; that a fleet of transport vessels capable of carrying all of them
in relatively calm seas lay more or less ready in the harbours of Dunkirk and
Nieuwpoort; and that, once the order to embark had been given, the process took
just thirty-six hours to complete. At that point Parma’s army might have got to
sea in one of three distinct ways: first, the Armada could have either defeated,
diverted or cowed the enemy fleets - Dutch and English alike - so that they could
not threaten the Army of Flanders in their poorly defended barges; second,
Medina could either have taken shelter in a secure anchorage in the Channel until
news arrived that Parma had his forces entirely ready to set sail without making
him ‘wait for him for a moment’; or, third, once at Calais he could have
sent enough ships to Dunkirk to drive off the Dutch and escort Parma’s fragile
flotilla first to the main fleet and then across to Margate (much as he had
successfully chaperoned his own lumbering and poorly armed supply vessels all
the way up the Channel). By the time Medina reached Calais, however, the first
option was clearly closed: although the Royal Navy had failed to halt or defeat the
enemy, it had established beyond question its tactical supremacy in combat. As
for the second alternative, the port of Calais — the only one available by the time
the Armada reached the Narrow Seas — could not accommodate Spanish galleons
(in 1598, while the city lay temporarily in Spanish hands, a large troopship sent
from Spain proved unable to enter the port, and others that did enter could not get
out again because of an Anglo-Dutch blockade).^*’ The only anchorage in the area
large enough to accommodate both the Armada and Parma’s fleet remained the
Downs; and to reach it, Parma’s flotilla first needed to ‘join hands’ with the
Armada.
Most commentators have dismissed the third alternative — proceeding to
Dunkirk — on the grounds that (to quote a contemporary, Luis Cabrera de
Cordoba) ‘it was not possible to join the Flanders fleet with the Armada because
the galleons drew 25 to 30 feet of water [between 8 and 10 metres}, and the seas
around Dunkirk were far more shallow’.But Cabrera was in Spain, not Flanders,
at the time; and he seems to have overlooked a number of facts. First, detailed
contemporary surveys of the Flemish coast indicated two safe anchorages within
the sandbanks, one of them specifically deemed suitable for a fleet seeking to
embark an army (see p. 245 above).Second, within living memory ten large
galleons had in fact come inshore — close enough to provide an effective bombardment
during the battle of Gravelines in 1558 — proving that deep-draught
warships could indeed approach Dunkirk. Surely, thirty years later, given the
small size and the light armament of the Dutch blockade ships, ten Armada
galleons (which actually drew far less than Cabrera’s eight metres!) would have
sufficed to bring out Parma’s army in safety.Failing that, even just the four
shallow-draught galleasses, each armed with over fifty guns (including two 35-,
two 36- and two 50-pounders), could easily have cleared a path from Dunkirk to
Calais. With no certainty when Parma’s army could be ready, and having already
lost several of his capital ships, however, Medina Sidonia no doubt felt he should
The Execution of Grand Strategy
249
not risk detaching some of his best fighting vessels when the English fleet - now
united and superior to his in numbers - lay less than two kilometres behind him,
poised to attack again at any moment.
Yet without some assistance from the Armada, as he had repeatedly stated,
Parma could not break the blockade on his own. Some sources claim that he made
an attempt to drive off the Dutch squadron with a task force of 1,000 select
musketeers aboard ten warships, and that it failed with the loss of all hands.Yet
even had this ploy succeeded (as, given Justinus’s weakness, it might have done),
Parma still required the Armada’s protection for the Channel crossing in the teeth
of Seymour’s powerful squadron in the Downs - the precise place scheduled for
the landing. His army of victorious veterans, honed by years of combat experience
(as one of their English adversaries admitted) into ‘ye best soldyers at this day
in Christendom’, represented a unique asset that, once lost, could never be
replaced.Just as Justinus of Nassau could not withstand single-handed the
entire power of Spain so Parma could not, once the Dutch blockade squadron had
taken up station, venture his forces against Spain’s enemies by sea unsupported.^^
Instead, on 6 and 7 August, as Parma marched his troops to the ports and began
to embark them, and the Armada rode anxiously at anchor off Calais and took on
some supplies, the English concentrated their fleet: Seymour’s squadron and some
reinforcements from London sailed across to join Howard, Drake, Hawkins and
the rest to windward of the Spanish fleet. On the night of the 7th, as the tide
began to run north, the English sent eight fireships towards the Armada. Some
were intercepted, but to avoid the rest Medina ordered his vessels to slip their
cables and take evasive action. This achieved what English gunfire had previously
failed to do: the Armada scattered, allowing the queen’s ships to get in among
the fleet and fire their big guns at close range. On 8 August, as Parma’s men
continued to board, they could hear the sounds of battle out to sea; but the sounds
grew fainter as the two fleets sailed into the North Sea. Gradually Medina Sidonia
and his lieutenants gathered their fighting ships together, allowing the Armada to
re-form, but now the wind blew strongly from the south, forcing them to retreat.
By the 12th they were level with the Firth of Forth, and the English turned for
home, satisfied that Medina would no longer risk leading his fleet back to the
straits of Dover, but would attempt to return to Spain around the north of
Scotland and Ireland.
As it happened, the strong winds that drove the Armada into the North Sea,
followed by Seymour’s squadron as well as the main English fleet, also blew the
Dutch off station again for almost a week. Seymour could not get his squadron
back to the Downs until the nth. In theory this created a ‘window of opportunity’
for the invasion. But if even galleons could not withstand the gales of the
Narrow Seas that week, what chance had Parma’s crowded barges which could
‘not even withstand large waves’? After that, even though Parma kept his forces
on stand-by until the end of the month, the chance to invade and conquer England
vanished.^^ On strategic, logistical and operational grounds, it was therefore
entirely reasonable for Alexander Farnese to have offered, shortly after the
Was Parma Ready?
250
Armada’s hasty departure from the Flemish coast, ‘to satisfy anyone who blamed
him for the failure of the Enterprise of England’; and it was equally reasonable for
all those present to remain silent, because clearly naval technology (combined
with the weather) had rendered Parma’s logistical triumphs and meticulous
embarkation schedules redundant. The guns of Elizabeth’s navy had destroyed
Philip’s masterplan beyond repair.
The Execution of Grand Strategy
9 The Guns of August^
In particular I must warn you that the enemy’s intention will be to fight at long
distance, on account of his advantage in artillery . . . The aim of our men, on
the contrary, must be to bring him to close quarters and grapple with the
weapons they hold in their hands; and you will have to be very careful to carry
this out. So that you will be well informed, I am sending you some reports from
which you will see the way in which the enemy employs his artillery to fire low
and sink his opponent s ships; and you will have to take such precautions as you
consider necessary in this respect.^
As usual, Philip II was well informed; his summary of how the Royal Navy would
defeat the Spanish Armada in August 1588 proved impeccable - the English did
indeed keep their distance and fired low, while the Armada never found a way to
close and grapple. This predictable outcome, which sealed the fate of Philip’s
Grand Strategy, raises two important questions: how had the English developed
their distinctive, superior tactical doctrine, and why could the Armada not follow
suit?
England’s achievement in 1588 has seldom been in doubt: its ships thwarted
Philip’s design to invade and conquer the realm, by driving the Armada away
from its planned junction with Parma. Exactly how much damage the Spaniards
suffered, by contrast, is hotly disputed. Even before the climactic battle off
Gravelines on 8 August, however, all four galleys attached to the fleet failed to
reach the Channel; one squadron flagship, the Santa Ana of the Biscay squadron,
became separated from the fleet and sought refuge in Le Havre (where she
eventually had to be abandoned); another flagship, the Nuestra Senora del Rosario of
the Andalusian squadron, collided with her consorts twice during the first day’s
action and suffered such damage that she had to surrender; a third warship, the
San Salvador, was also abandoned and captured that same day because her powder
magazine exploded; and the flag galleass likewise collided with another ship, lost
her tiller and, before she could regain control, ran aground and became thoroughly
disabled. Admittedly the English played little part in most of these
events, but the loss of an entire squadron (the galleys), of three squadron flagships.
251
252 The Execution of Grand Strategy
and of another prime fighting ship before the decisive encounter reflects little
credit on Spanish seamanship; and it certainly helped the English, who made full
use of the copious stores recovered from their two prizes — particularly the 229
barrels of powder and the 3,600 ‘cannon, demi-cannon and culverin shot’, which
they immediately distributed among the queen’s ships/ Then, on 8 August,
during the battle itself, the English sank one Spanish ship by gunfire and inflicted
such extensive damage on two more, both powerful Portuguese galleons, that they
ran aground and had to be abandoned. Ear more losses occurred on the long
journey back to Spain: perhaps one-third of the remaining Armada ships sank or
were abandoned - several (if not most) of them specifically because of damage
inflicted by the English in action.^ Yet Elizabeth achieved all this in return for the
loss of only eight small private vessels, deliberately sacrificed as fireships to
disrupt the Armada’s formation at a total cost of £5,111 los. — ‘perhaps’, as one
naval historian suggested, ‘the cheapest national investment that this country has
ever made’.^ So how and when had England acquired the ability to defend her
shores even against, in the words of Sir John Hawkins, ‘the greatest and strongest
combination, to my understanding, that ever was gathered in Christendom’?^
Certain elements of the explanation stemmed from the common heritage of all
sixteenth-century Atlantic states. By 1500 the ‘full-rigged ship’ — one of the
greatest technological inventions of medieval Europe, originating in the Iberian
peninsula and spreading northwards in the course of the fifteenth century — had
become the most important sailing vessel all along the Atlantic coast. With its
great holds, it served the needs of the burgeoning European economy; with its
superb sailing qualities, it facilitated voyages of discovery and overseas colonization;
with its powerful construction, capable of absorbing the recoil of outgoing
gunfire as well as the impact of incoming rounds, it opened the way for the
artillery broadside.
An effective cannonade, however, also required the invention of hinged
gunports in the hull, for heavy artillery could be safely deployed only on a ship’s
lower decks. Although visual evidence reveals the existence of gunports as early as
the 1470s, the first sailing warships capable of firing ‘great ordnance’ only
appeared after 1500. During the first two decades of the sixteenth century,
England, Scotland, France and Denmark all began to build vessels displacing
around 1,500 tons and heavily armed with gunpowder weapons, some of them
large. The size and armament of the English fleet rose particularly swiftly: by the
1540s the ‘Navy Royall’ comprised 53 vessels, including 15 ‘great ships’, with a
total displacement of some 15,000 tons and almost 200 heavy guns (9-pounder
calibre and above).^
Fifty years later the picture had changed in several significant respects. In
1595, although the Royal Navy included only 38 fighting ships, 23 of them
exceeded 400 tons’ displacement, and the total for the fleet approached 20,000
tons.^ More striking still, the total of heavy guns aboard the ships had more than
tripled — to over 600 — and 250 of them fired a ball weighing 16 pounds or more.
All these weapons could inflict devastating damage at close quarters.Furthermore
the ships that bore them possessed a remarkable consistency of construction.
Beginning in 1573 the queen’s shipwrights introduced a new design — known as
‘race-built’ — that involved a reduction in the ‘castles’ fore and aft, sleeker lines,
and a longer gundeck. These changes produced two important advantages: they
effected a revolution in armament, for the castles had carried the majority of the
anti-personnel weapons, while the longer gundecks permitted a significant
increase in the weight of the broadside; and the sleeker lines gave the English
warships a distinct edge over their competitors, allowing them to sail faster and
to manoeuvre — and bring their guns to bear — with (for that age) remarkable
dexterity. The first of the faster ‘all-big-gun battleships’ of the Tudor navy was
called (in an uncanny parallel with the similarly innovative capital ship of the
Edwardian navy in the early twentieth century) the Dreadnought. Launched in
1573, she displaced 700 tons and carried 31 tons of ordnance (not counting the
weight of the gun carriages and tackles).The ability to carry heavy artillery
equivalent to almost 5 per cent of total displacement was unprecedented, but this
record did not last: in 1590 the new ship Defiance, also 700 tons, carried 53 tons
of ordnance, equivalent to over 7.5 per cent of her displacement. Equally important,
a remarkable programme of rotation for the queen’s ships began in 1577, to
‘reform’ (in the phrase of its mastermind. Sir John Hawkins) older vessels to a
‘race-built’ design: in 1592 the ‘reformed’ Swiftsure (650 tons) bore 43 tons of
ordnance, or almost 7 per cent of her displacement (see Figure 3).'^
These measures did not come cheap yet Elizabeth, despite her celebrated
reputation for parsimony, spent heavily on warships (her navy acquired sixteen
vessels between 1585 and 1588 and repaired the rest), on maintaining a permanent
cadre of trained officers and men, and on creating a massive stockpile of
ordnance specifically for use on sailing warships. During the war years 1585-1604
her navy received over £1.5 million (about 6 million ducats) from her treasury.'^
Although this figure may seem puny when set beside the spending levels achieved
by Philip — 10 million ducats on the Armada alone in 1585—88 and almost 40
million ducats in France and the Netherlands between 1588 and 1598 — no other
early modern state regularly devoted 30 per cent of its defence spending to the
14
navy.
Thanks to all this, in 1588 Elizabeth’s capital ships constituted the most
powerful navy afloat anywhere in the world. It was not, however, the largest.
Although she possessed eighteen capital ships, Philip boasted slightly more: ten
Portuguese galleons, most of them recently built and all of them heavily armed;
eight newly built guardships of the transatlantic convoys that sailed annually
between Seville and the Caribbean (each displacing 700 tons but carrying only 24
guns — a battleship armed like a cruiser, as it were); and four Neapolitan galleasses
(each weighing around 750 tons and mounting 50 guns, including six heavy
pieces mounted on the fore- and stern-castles).^^ Together these royal vessels
totalled twenty-one — but they belonged to three distinct nautical ‘families’, each
designed for a different purpose, and few of them had operated together before.’*^
The Guns of August 253
English capital ships, 1573-92
Figure 3 In the two decades after 1573 the warships of the English navy changed dramatically. Older ships
were ‘reformed’ and new vessels were laid down according to a design that allowed them to sail faster, to carry
far more ordnance and to fire it more rapidly. Starting with the Dreadnought in 1573, the weight of the artiller
carried by Elizabeth’s ships increased from over 4 per cent to around 7 per cent — and the weight of munitions,
carriages and tackle increased the figures still further. Source: Parker, ‘The Dreadnought revolution of Tudor
England’, 287—8.
Elizabeth’s warships, by contrast, had been served by the same officers and
crews for years, patrolling the Narrow Seas, showing the flag off the coast of
Ireland, and (in the case of several ships) cruising in Spanish waters. By August
1588, they had been mobilized and had been at sea for most of the previous eight
months, giving all aboard a thorough (perhaps excessive!) familiarity with their
vessels. Moreover Elizabeth could also count upon the assistance of some privately
owned galleons whose technological sophistication rivalled that of her own warships.
Thus Howard’s flagship, the Ark Royal, displacing 1,100 tons and carrying
32 guns, had begun life as a private ship (the Ark Raleigh, built for Sir Walter by
the queen’s master shipwright, Richard Chapman); the Edward Bonaventure (450
tons and 30 guns), owned by the earl of Oxford, was built in 1574 according to
the design of the queen’s ship. Foresight', and the Galleon Leicester (600 tons and 42
guns), owned by the earl of Leicester, was built in 1578 in express imitation of the
The Guns of August 255
Revenge by the queen’s master shipwright, Matthew Baker (this ship may have
been the first ever to be built according to formal plans). These private warships
— for they were no mere merchantmen — all fought effectively against the Armada
alongside the queen’s ships.
Philip proved less fortunate in this regard. Most of the ‘fleet auxiliaries’
embargoed for the Armada campaign had been built to carry bulk cargoes: Spain
and Portugal did not, at this stage, engage in the sort of aggressive commerce
raiding in the Atlantic that gave rise to the Edward Bonaventure and her consorts.
For Spain’s crusade against England, these embargoed merchant ships (which
came from almost every continental port between Ragusa and Rostock) required
extra ordnance, powder and shot from the government: thus the Gran Grifon,
a 950-ton grain transport from Rostock in the Baltic, carried 27 guns
(all iron and none larger than 6-pounder) when she was embargoed in Spain
in 1587; but she sailed against England with 38 (the new ones all bronze and
including four lo-pounders). However, converting a ship built to carry bulk
cargoes into an effective warship involved more than just cutting more gunports
into the hull and supplying additional cannon: the crew needed to be retrained
and the ship’s entire structure required reinforcement in order to withstand the
recoil from firing heavy ordnance. The Gran Grifon, which figured prominently in
several actions, foundered off Fair Isle on the way home because (according to her
commander) she had been damaged not only ‘by the many guns which some of the
English ships fired against her’ but also ‘by the [recoil of the] guns she fired
against them’.^^
The English fleet in 1588 apparently suffered no such problems. One of
Elizabeth’s captains claimed that at the battle off Gravelines, on 8 August, ‘Out
of my ship [the Vanguard'. 850 tons, 37 guns} there was shot 500 shot of demicannon,
culverin and demi-culverin; and when I was furthest off in discharging
any of the pieces, I was not out of the shot of their harquebus [within small arms
range: about 50 metres}, and most times within speech of one another [close
enough to shout abuse: perhaps 20 metres in naval combat}’. ^This picture of
relentless bombardment by heavy artillery at very close range is confirmed by the
surviving Spanish accounts, all of which remarked on the constant and effective
artillery barrage maintained by the queen’s ships: to some, the English seemed
able to fire three rounds in the time it took the Armada to fire one; to others, it
seemed to ‘rain shot’; and men who had been at the battle of Lepanto claimed they
saw ‘twenty times as much great shot . . . plied as they had there’.More specifically,
a gunnery officer on Medina Sidonia’s flagship reported ‘107 direct hits on
the hull, masts and sails by cannon shot’; Juan Martinez de Recalde, in the viceflagship,
thought 1,000 rounds had been fired against him; while some claimed
that another Portuguese galleon ‘had been shot through 350 times’ before it ran
aground.All the Spanish survivors commented on the close range of the action
— ‘within musket shot and sometimes arquebus shot’.^^
Unfortunately, few of the English Ordnance Office’s operational records for
1588 appear to have survived, and so these impressions cannot be substantiated
Shot and powder expended by Royal Navy ships on the
Cadiz and Caribbean raids, 1595-96
■ ,/ / / /// / ^ / / " / / / / / / /
till mr
I I H In H I ■ |n ■ II H' 1^ ■
S \ N N N N
"N N
S N N
N N N
N S N
N.:< S,. N!:,
N N N
N S N
N N \
N S N
S N NJ N' NN.
N N'
<* N N
NS N!! \S
/ r ^ 4 /
/ / / / f
^<5 - ^ /S /^ /^ /
Cadiz / Caribbean
Figure 4 In 1595—96 Elizabeth sent almost her entire fleet to sea against Spain; seventeen warships led an
expedition to take Cadiz, while six more sailed to the Caribbean. The records of powder and shot supplied to,
and used by, each royal ship show a prodigious use of ammunition (the smaller vessels — the Charles, Lion’s
Whelp, Moon and Tramontana — carried no heavy ordnance). Some ships fired over 550 heavy-calibre rounds and
three tons of powder in the course of the campaign — a triumphant vindication of the new ‘race-built’ design
pioneered by English shipwrights. Source: PRO WO 55/1627 ‘The booke of the remaynes of Her Majesty’s
shippes returning from the seas’, 1595—6.
beyond all doubt. However the full accounts for 1595—96 — the first to survive,
covering both the raid by Howard and Essex on Cadiz and the voyage of Drake and
Hawkins to the Caribbean — provide strong support.The former involved
seventeen of the queen’s ships, leading a fleet of over 120 English and Dutch
vessels; the latter included six. The Ordnance Office carefully noted the quantities
of shot and munitions issued to each royal ship at the start of the campaign, the
total used (‘the waste spente at the seas’), and also the amount returned (Eigure 4).
These reveal that not only did the 308 heavy guns aboard the royal ships discharge
a total of 3,976 rounds and 554 tons of powder during the Cadiz campaign, they
fired most of it on a single day (21 June 1596 OS) when, according to a
contemporary account, ‘infinite store of shot was spent between our ships, the
town and galleys, much to their damage and nothing to our loss’.Much the same
The Gum of August 257
pattern marked Drake and Hawkins’s last expedition to the Caribbean shortly
before. The six royal vessels on the expedition received a total of 4,910 roundshot
for their 142 big guns and fired 3,303 (67 per cent) of them; they also received
194 tons of powder and used all but 2 tons (99 per cent).^’ Although by modern
naval standards firing 550 heavy-calibre rounds and almost 3 tons of powder per
ship in the course of a campaign may seem modest, in the sixteenth century it was
unprecedented. Whether the English employed the same tactics in 1588 — and all
the evidence suggests that they did, since by the end of the action the entire fleet
had run out of both powder and shot^^— clearly by the end of the sixteenth century
a new type of naval warfare had emerged in England.
Why could the Armada not follow suit? After all, the technique of long-range
naval battery originated in the Iberian peninsula. The Instructions provided in
1500 by King Manuel of Portugal (Philip’s grandfather) to the commander of
a fleet dispatched to the Indian Ocean specified that, upon meeting any hostile
ships, ‘you are not to come to close quarters with them if you can avoid it, but only
with your artillery are you to compel them to strike sail ... so that this war may
be waged with greater safety, and so that less loss may result to the people of your
ships’.The precision of the orders suggests that the tactics described were not
new in 1500. Over the next half-century, however, Portuguese tactical doctrine
for war at sea changed. In 1555 Fernando Oliveira, in his influential treatise The
art of war at sea (the first manual of naval warfare ever published), still asserted that
‘at sea we fight at a distance, as if from walls or fortresses, and we seldom come
close enough to fight hand-to-hand’ and recommended ‘a single and straight
\singella e dereytd\ line’ as the ideal combat formation. But he also advised captains
to carry heavy weapons only at the prow, like a galley, with lighter pieces, mostly
muzzle-loaders, on the broadside, and warned that: ‘It is never safe at sea to allow
opponents on your beam; rather you should always keep them ahead when you are
fighting . . . Never expose your broadside to them.’^^
For Oliveira, the ‘single and straight’ line of warships resembled an advancing
formation of galleys, with their heavy guns to the fore. Theorists of naval warfare
in Spain agreed. Writing in about 1540, Alonso de Chaves expressly advised
battle fleets ‘to sail in wings \en alaf because all [the ships} can see their enemies
and fire their artillery without impeding each other. They must not sail in line \en
hila'l, with one behind the other, because that would cause serious harm, since
only the ships in the van can fight’.In the 1580s Spain’s Atlantic fleet clearly
still deployed in a crescent, just like galleys, so that all except the ships on each
wing (or ‘horn’ as the Spaniards now called it) could normally fire only their
bow- and stern-chasers.^*’Nevertheless, like galleys, a crescent of sailing warships
could still inflict grievous harm on an adversary. Thus, in July 1582, a large
Spanish fleet — including some of the same ships and the same officers who later
sailed against England — defeated a superior French and English naval force in a
battle off Sao Miguel in the Azores largely through firepower. The senior Spanish
infantry officer (a veteran of Lepanto) considered that the battle had been fought
258 The Execution of Grand Strategy
‘with the greatest fury ever seen’ and several participants commented on the
large number of rounds exchanged; one of the principal galleons involved had
only a single barrel of powder left at the end of the action. According to one
account, the ‘sides, masts and rigging’ of the enemy flagship ‘were so shattered by
the battery we gave them that she sank’; according to another, most of the
victorious galleons had also suffered so much damage that they got home only
with difficulty.
So Philip’s ships could, on occasion, deploy their artillery effectively and cause
damage to their foes, yet they did not do so in 1588. The problem does not seem
to have been a failure to fire. It is possible to be fairly precise about this because
the clerk aboard every hired ship received strict instructions to keep a record of
the powder, shot, match and lead used every day, ‘stating in detail the pieces
of artillery that were fired, their calibre and weight, and the powder and ball
consumed’, on behalf of the ship’s master (who was responsible for everything he
received from government agencies); and one or two of the soldiers aboard also
noted down these same details on behalf of the Ordnance Office.Despite the
disorder aboard some ships during the battle, and the disorganization of the
surviving papers of the Armada, reasonably accurate records can be reconstructed
for nine ships (see Figure 5).^^ Every case offers a striking contrast with the records
for Elizabeth’s ships: only a small fraction of the powder and shot expended in
action and huge quantities returned at the end of the campaign.
Only the Portuguese galleons, the sole purpose-built sailing warships in the
fleet, seem to have maintained a high rate of fire. Juan Martinez de Recalde, in the
46-gun San Juan, reported firing 140 rounds on 31 July (although he received 300
incoming rounds), 130 on 3 August, and 300 rounds on 8 August (against, he
thought, 1,000 incoming); while, according to a gunnery officer aboard Medina
Sidonia’s 48-gun flagship, the San Martin fired 120 rounds on 31 July, 120 again
on 2 August (‘of which some must have caused much damage to the enemy’s
ships’), 130 on 3 August and 300 on 8 August.^^ Medina Sidonia’s special envoy
to the king, Don Balthasar de Zuniga, claimed that after the battle off Gravelines
‘they had no ammunition left, not even two roundshot with which to withstand
the enemy’; and the duke himself asserted that by then the fleet ‘had no artillery
balls to fire’.^’ But this could not have been entirely correct, because all of the nine
ships for which full information survives (see Figure 5) possessed copious supplies
of both powder and shot long after 8 August and the same seems to have been true
of others. Medina Sidonia himself provides a crucial clue, for on 4 August he
begged the duke of Parma to send him ‘a couple of ships with powder and shot of
the calibre specified in the memorial attached’. That memorial has apparently not
survived but, according to Medina’s campaign journal, he asked Parma for ‘balls
of 4, 6 and 10 pounds, because many of them had been expended during the
skirmishes’.^^Likewise the surviving records — both archaeological and archival —
of the various Spanish ships reveal that they fired mostly small shot, even though
only larger-calibre ammunition stood much chance of inflicting serious damage
on Elizabeth’s ships. Thus of the 314 iron shot fired during the 1588 campaign by
9000
Shot expended by ships of the Spanish Armada, 1588
Figure 5 The Spanish Armada kept remarkably similar records to those of the English navy, with one
exception: Philip IPs clerks noted the issue of shot and other munitions to vessels hired from the private sector
but not for the crown’s own vessels, whereas the queen’s servants appear to have done exactly the reverse. No
account apparently survives on the gunnery performance of the galleons of Portugal or Castile, which by
common account bore the brunt of the fighting in August 1588. The detailed records assembled for some other
ships, however, reveal a consistent pattern: vast quantities of munitions supplied - no doubt some of them for
subsequent re-distribution - but remarkably little used. In several cases we know not only the number of rounds
issued, but also the number fired day by day and the quantity returned to government store when the fleet got
back to Spain. The contrast with Elizabeth’s ships (Figure 4) could hardly be more striking. Source: Parker, ‘The
Dreadnought revolution of Tudor England’, 278—9.
the San Juan Bautista de la Esperanza (Levant squadron) ‘in the fight with the
English vice-flagship as well as in others’, 41 weighed 5 pounds, 13 weighed 3
and 4 pounds, and 260 weighted 2 pounds or less. Of the 1,640 rounds fired by
the nine ships for which detailed records survive, only 175 (i i per cent) exceeded
9 pounds and none exceeded 20 pounds.
This must partially explain why the Armada’s substantial expenditure of
powder and shot apparently inflicted so little harm on the Royal Navy. Several
historians have noted that the English government’s own ‘Dockyard Survey’ of the
queen’s ships recorded only damage to sails, rigging, masts, boats and superstructures
— and precious little of that — with not a single mention of structural damage
to hulls.This should occasion no surprise, because responsibility for repairing
the hulls of the queen’s ships lay with the treasurer of the navy, not with the
dockyards, and his accounts for the year 1588 show substantial expenditure on
‘the groundinge, gravinge, repairinge and preparinge at Chatham of all her
highnes’ ships’ after the Armada campaign. These structural repairs required over
4,000 metres of planking (ranging from 2 to 9 centimetres thick); 99,500 nails
and 1,000 treenails; 15,400 pounds of ironwork; 85 loads of oak and elm timber;
and wages for 948 ‘shipwrights, sawyers and pulleymakers’ who worked an
average of 35 days each.This total is the largest repair bill found in any of the
accounts submitted by the treasurers of the navy during the entire period of
the Spanish War, and it indicates that Elizabeth’s warships returned to port after
the Armada campaign in need of considerable repair.
Nevertheless, these figures must be placed in perspective. First, the total cost
only ran to £3,500 (about 14,000 ducats) — the amount required to build or repair
just one new warship — in a record expenditure for the year of over £92,000
(roughly 368,000 ducats).Second, although the account provides no detail about
which ships received what repairs, something about the scale and nature of the
operation can be deduced from the materials supplied. The majority of the
planking was 2 and 4 centimetres (some 3,000 metres), which can only have
served for the superstructures; the 500 metres of 6-centimetre planks probably
went into internal decks; but repairs to the ships’ hulls would have required 8-
centimetre planking, and of this less than 200 metres were purchased. Likewise
the large number of iron nails would have gone into the superstructures, because
fastening the hull required treenails — of which only 1,000 were supplied. Third,
85 loads (roughly 85 tons) of timber would not go far, since constructing an
Elizabethan galleon required at least 500 loads. Furthermore, the same account
reveals that far more repairs took place before the campaign against the Armada.
Early in 1588, just for Howard’s squadron, contractors supplied almost 8,000
metres of planking (over 1,000 metres of it 8-centimetre), 9,000 treenails, 56
‘great beams’, and 262 loads of oak, elm and maple.In view of all this it seems
safe to affirm that Philip’s ships failed to inflict serious damage on their adversaries
in 1588, even though during the engagement on 8 August (at least) some of
them had fired repeated artillery salvoes at very close quarters (‘within speech of
one another’. Why?
Recent attempts to explain this failure have centred on three technological
issues: the larger size, the poor performance, and the inferior gunnery of the
Spanish vessels. There is less to these charges than meets the eye. The debate on
the relative size of the ships stems largely from the different (and somewhat
arcane) systems of measuring vessels at the time; for contemporaries the contrast
seemed less significant. Thus in 1586 four Portuguese captains captured and
interviewed by John Hawkins compared one of the queen’s ships — the Hope — with
the flagship of the Portuguese squadron: ‘it was only slightly smaller than the
galleon San Martin,' they said, and a comparison of displacements, rather than
capacity, confirms this."*^ However, whatever the size, observers on both sides
a6o The Execution of Grand Strategy The Guns of August 261
agreed that English ‘race-built’ galleons, both royal and private, could manoeuvre
far more rapidly than their adversaries. Don Diego Pimentel claimed that
the English had been ‘able to tack four or five times in the time it took us to go
about once’; while, according to another senior officer, in comparison with some
of their English adversaries, even the swiftest ship in the Armada ‘appeared to
be standing still’Moreover, many of Philip’s vessels probably did exceed the
queen’s ships in size, because they were bulk cargo vessels: after all, one of the
Armada’s primary functions was to transport the munitions, equipment and
reinforcements that Parma required for a successful invasion; Elizabeth’s fleet
simply had to fight.
The evidence concerning gunnery is more complicated. To begin with, even the
galleons of Portugal carried a mixed bag of weaponry. Thus the i ,ooo-ton San
Juan on which Recalde sailed, built in 1586 and reputed ‘the best-gunned ship jn
the Armada’ because ‘her artillery was the most uniform in type and weight, being
armed with guns made for the purpose’, nevertheless carried nothing larger than
a 2o-pounder, with eight more pieces throwing between 16- and 18-pound shot.
Most of the other big guns were periers (stone-throwers), and the majority of the
San Juans 46 guns fired 10 pound balls or less. Moreover (despite the paean to
uniformity) her ordnance consisted of no fewer than nine different calibres of iron
and six more of stone shot. Among the flagships of other squadrons, the i ,ioo-ton
Santa Ana (Guipuzcoa) carried 47 guns, but only three fired 16-pound balls or
more; the i,ooo-ton Nuestra Senora del Rosario (Andalusia) carried 46 guns, of
which nine threw 16-pound balls or more; and the 6oo-ton San Cristobal (Castile)
carried 32 guns, the largest two 12-pounder periers.In fact the entire Armada
lacked heavy artillery: fewer than 150 of the 2,431 guns known to be aboard the
fleet fired 16-pound shot and above, and these belonged to at least twelve different
calibres, the heaviest of them siege pieces unsuitable for use at sea. The Royal
Navy, by contrast, boasted 250 heavy guns, all belonging to the same three
calibres.
Many other guns on the Spanish Armada may also have been ill-suited for use
at sea because they rested upon two-wheel carriages with long trails, whereas the
queen’s ships (at least) used compact four-wheel carriages. Even the first known
survey of the Royal Navy, in 1515, recorded that the large guns aboard Henry
VIII’s warships rested on ‘trotills’ or ‘on four wheels’; and examples of such
carriages have been excavated from the wreck of the Mary Rose, one of those
very ships, which sank thirty years later. By the 1570s, when systematic records
begin to survive, the Ordnance Office constructed ‘carriages for sea service’
with ‘truckells’ quite differently, and kept them quite separately, from ‘land
carriages’."*^ This does not seem to have been the case on the Spanish ships. Some
guns aboard the Armada were definitely mounted upon very large two-wheeled
carriages, some of them expressly intended for land use. Thus in April 1588 Don
Pedro de Valdes, commander of the Andalusian squadron, noted that ‘The hulk
named Santa Ana has a culverin of 31 quintals and 93 pounds of Naples which,
because it is very long and is on a land carriage, cannot be used on the said hulk
262 The Execution of Grand Strategy
because there is not sufficient space for it.’ Valdes therefore ordered the gun to be
brought aboard his own, much larger, flagship, Nuestra Senora del Rosario, together
with 30 rounds and appropriate loading equipment.^'^ Excavation of the Trinidad
Valencera, a Venetian transport embargoed for service with the Armada and
wrecked on the coast of Northern Ireland, revealed a massive sea-carriage with a
long trail, making an assemblage 6 metres long on a deck barely 12 metres wide.^^
Whether these inappropriate mountings prevailed throughout the fleet is not
known, because so far only details of new carriages supplied to the Andalusian
squadron have been founds but those had only two wheels, each apparently
standing 72 centimetres high."**^
One last technical factor may have influenced the outcome of the Armada
campaign. Many Spanish vessels had fewer gunners than the queen’s ships they
faced - although only incomplete statistics survive on each side. Thus the number
of gunners aboard Elizabeth’s warships varied between twenty and forty, while
those aboard the ships of the Armada’s Andalusian squadron rarely exceeded ten.'*^
The former, moreover, were purpose-built warships, the latter merchantmen
embargoed as they prepared to sail to America; and in any case, writing some years
later. Sir W^alter Raleigh held that every piece at least requires foure gunners to
attend it Admittedly Alonso Vanegas, a gunnery officer aboard the Spanish
flagship, claimed that a gun captain and his assistant, with six soldiers, served
each piece aboard the San Martin, under the overall command of a master gunner
{condestable) and six artillery officers; while Medina Sidonia’s battle orders for his
ship allocated two artillery officers to each side of the main gundeck, and a senior
officer with four assistants (two on each side) on the other.^' However, as Colin
Martin has pointed out, if six soldiers permanently worked each of the flagship’s
48 guns, no fewer than 288 of the 302 soldiers aboard would have been tied down.
Furthermore, Medina Sidonia s battle orders also stipulated that, once at action
stations, all soldiers would serve as infantry, fully armed for combat, with
muskets, arquebuses and slow match at the ready; they could hardly then double
up as gunners. Elizabeth s captains, by contrast, expected everyone — gentlemen,
gunners, sailors — to participate equally in any activity required.
Technology, however, cannot entirely explain the unequal performance of the
two fleets in August 1588. Commanders on both sides reckoned that some twenty
vessels in each fleet bore the brunt of the action, fighting as well as they could,
while the rest tried to keep out of trouble. Moreover the armament (like the size)
of those twenty vessels perhaps did not differ greatly: the San Salvador and the
Rosario, although they played no part in the action, carried several guns that their
English captors reckoned as cannon, culverin and demi-culverin. The real issue, as
noted above, was not how many big guns the Armada carried, but how often and
how effectively they fired them.”
Philip had not assembled his fleet with a view to fighting and winning a closerange
naval duel as a prelude to landing an invincible expeditionary force: rather,
as already noted, his Grand Strategy assigned it the role of an armed convoy that
would transport supplies and reinforcements to the rendezvous with Parma’s
army. The king’s instructions to the fleet commanders - first Santa Cruz and then
Medina Sidonia - stressed that battle should be avoided at almost any cost.
Since the success of this business consists of going for the root, even if Drake
should have set out for these waters with a fleet in order to divert and hinder
{you}, as some reports from England claim, you are not to be deflected from
your journey, but rather continue it without seeking out the enemy.
Admittedly the king allowed three exceptions:
If [Drake] follows you and comes close, you may in that case attack; and also if
you run into Drake and his fleet at the mouth of the Channel, because if the
[English] forces are divided, it would be very good to defeat them in this way
so that they cannot unite.
And if, finally, the Armada reached the Narrow Seas and found Elizabeth’s entire
navy defending the coast, then - and only then - Medina was permitted to attack.
Philip’s advice on how to win in these circumstances did not correspond to
reality, however, and he offered no advice on how exactly Medina should force the
English to come close enough to be boarded.^^ In 1587, Philip had prudently
allowed Santa Cruz a measure of latitude to disregard his tactical instructions if
necessary:
Since the outcome of wars, and especially of wars at sea, are so subject to
fluctuations in the weather and to the uncertainty of the information available
to those who command armies and navies, I have absolutely nothing certain to
tell you or precise orders to give concerning what should be done with the fleet.
Since you are so competent and expert in both, it seemed best to delegate all
this to you so that, according to the opportunities that occur, both for the navy
to fight and for the pursuit of the pirates [i.e. the English], and in all the other
things that may occur during your voyage, you will do whatever seems to you
most appropriate. ”
In 1588, however, Medina received no such dispensation. Instead Philip personally
placed at the duke’s right hand a naval adviser renowned for his caution.” At
first sight, Diego Flores de Valdes possessed impressive credentials for the job. He
had participated in a peacetime expedition to England in 1554 (bringing Philip
II from Corunna to Southampton in order to marry Mary Tudor) and served
as second-in-command of the fleet that in 1565 expelled the French from Florida.
He had also commanded without mishap the great convoys sailing between Spain
and the Caribbean eight times between 1567 and 1580. Since the king saw the
Armada in much the same light, and since Flores’s experience in this regard was
second to none, his posting to the flagship seems less surprising.” Nevertheless,
The Guns of August 263
264 The Execution of Grand Strategy
his record as commander of the flotilla sent to chase the English from the South
Atlantic in 1581—84 had been lacklustre and, early in 1588, on hearing of Flores’s
appointment to command the squadron of Castile, at least one person warned the
king that he would do better to appoint ‘a man who is not so timid and so afraid
of fighting’.
The advice proved prescient, for throughout the Armada campaign Diego
Flores consistently advocated policies that were ‘timid’ and many subsequently
blamed him for the failure of the entire enterprise. His critics included the
Armada’s second-in-command. Admiral Juan Martinez de Recalde, who had more
combat experience than anyone in either fleet — Spanish or English — since he had
participated in several naval engagements in the 1570s and in the Terceira
campaign. He had also commanded two troop convoys sailing from Spain to
Dunkirk (one of which sheltered for a while in the Solent), as well as an amphibious
expedition to Smerwick in Ireland.
Recalde’s strategic vision differed radically from that of both Philip II and
Diego Flores. On 29 July 1588, even before sighting the English coast, the
admiral wanted to ‘ensure that the enemy comes out to fight, and to incite him to
do so’, and he therefore advocated a surprise attack on the port of Plymouth, where
the English fleet was by then known to be refitting: ‘Although I am no friend
of bravado, we should try it as we pass before the port {of Plymouth},’ he wrote.
At a council of war the next day, Recalde and others tried to convince the duke to
sail straight to Plymouth and there either bottle up or destroy the English fleet:
according to one witness, the council ‘agreed that yf they could passe the haven
with twenty shipps abrest they would followe that advise’. That same night
however — perhaps intentionally — Medina took a decision that prevented this: he
ordered the Armada to take in sail and wait, allegedly to rally all his fleet. He
subsequently justified his action (to an irate Recalde) by claiming that although
the attack on Plymouth ‘was discussed by the council, it was not decided upon,
nor was it advisable’.This crucial delay gave the English fleet time to get to sea
and to gain the weather gauge.
On I August, since the English remained resolutely to windward, Recalde
urged Medina to turn the Armada around and launch an outright attack, ‘and
better to do it today than tomorrow, because we are using up our resources while
our enemies are increasing theirs’. In another note that day he argued vociferously
for attack again: ‘We should put all our eggs in one basket, and the sooner the
better’. Yet again, the duke remained faithful to Philip’s Instructions and kept
sailing up the Channel. On the 4th, Recalde offered to lead the entire rearguard
of the Armada in pursuit of the English in order either to drive them away or
confine them in the Solent, the anchorage between the Isle of Wight and the
English mainland. At the same time he strongly opposed proceeding any further
up the Channel, where the Armada would lack an adequate anchorage, until the
duke of Parma confirmed that he knew of the fleet’s approach and had his forces
ready for the invasion.For the third time Medina Sidonia rejected his admiral’s
advice.
Little did Recalde realize that the duke had no choice. In June, as his fleet
approached Cape Finisterre, Medina forwarded to the king a copy of his letter to
Parma reporting that he had ‘consulted the pilots and other experts aboard this
fleet who are familiar with the whole coast of England, and asked them to decide
in which port this Armada might shelter’ while he waited for news that Parma
had his forces ready.Philip immediately responded: ‘The main point {of the
plan} was to go on until you could join hands with the duke my nephew,’ he
chided. ‘I am sure you will have done this, and proceeded to that location and
made safe the duke’s transit’. If the campaign had gone according to plan Medina
would not have received this message until it was too late since the king sent it
to Flanders for delivery: it would have remained just another of Philip’s misguided
but ineffective attempts at micromanagement. As it happened, however.
Providence afforded the king an unexpected — and, as it turned out, fatal —
opportunity to interfere, because shortly afterwards storms drove the fleet to seek
refuge in Corunna, where it remained for a month. Medina Sidonia therefore
received a copy of Philip’s letter there, together with another admonition a
few days later to proceed to Flanders as fast as possible.He dared not disobey
now.
The difference of opinion on both strategy and tactics between Recalde and
Medina Sidonia reached crisis proportions once the fleet anchored off Calais. The
duke’s ‘log’ noted that many of his advisers wanted to ‘go on’, rather than stop
short of both Dunkirk and the Downs; and the admiral later recorded that the
decision to halt was taken ‘much against my will, because in entering the North
Sea the venture was finished’. Recalde felt so strongly that he refused direct orders
to attend a meeting of the council of war. When on 7 August the prince of Asculi,
a grandee on the general staff, came to summon Recalde to council on Medina
Sidonia’s flagship, the admiral ‘replied that now was not the time to go there
and leave his ship, and that his opinion was worth little or nothing. And
the prince replied that because his own vote did not count, and because of the
confusion that prevailed on the flagship, he {too} had left’. When Medina summoned
him again two days later, after the fireship attack and the battle off
Gravelines, Recalde at first refused to go ‘through anger at seeing the little
courage of all and the confusion on the {flag}ship; and because his opinion had not
counted for much in some of the earlier meetings {of the council} he did not want
to go’. Recalde obeyed the duke’s second summons, but only to object to the
‘dreadful resolution’ to return to Spain around the British Isles, rather than try
again to reach Parma.
Would the alternative operational plans proposed by Recalde have snatched
victory from the jaws of defeat? Undoubtedly he was right to oppose sailing at full
speed towards the Dover straits without some indication that Parma was ready:
Medina’s expectation that his messengers to Flanders would arrive — let alone
return with an answer — in less than a week was patently absurd (p. 234 above).
Perhaps, had Philip appointed him to succeed Santa Cruz, Recalde would have
The Guns of August 265
266 The Execution of Grand Strategy
received the same discretionary powers to ‘do whatever seems to you most appropriate’
and might therefore have shortened sail as he advanced up the Channel.
This change alone, however, would not have tipped the scales. On the one hand,
had the Armada taken refuge in the Solent it would have become vulnerable to a
fireship attack similar to the one the English later unleashed off Calais. On the
other hand, neither confining the Royal Navy to Plymouth nor ‘chasing’ it would
obviate the need for the fleet to ferry the invasion transports in Flanders across to
the coast of Kent, and for that the English fleet had to be defeated or at least
cowed. Everything depended on the Armada’s ability to fight and win. Recalde
clearly believed that this could be achieved - but was he right?
The course of the battle off Gravelines on 8 August, when the two fleets finally
engaged fully, offers little support for Recalde’s confidence. During the protracted
close-quarter combat on that day, the Spanish ships did not manage either to
board or to inflict substantial harm on a single English vessel, whereas many of
them received extensive damage. Had the engagement occurred in the Channel
the previous week, there seems no reason to suppose that the outcome would have
been different.Given the inequality in firepower, boarding offered the Armada’s
only chance of success, and everyone knew it. Thus on 3 August, after four days
of heavy skirmishing, Martin de Bertendona tried ‘to close with and board the
English flagship . . . passing among many English ships, firing cannon at them
without stopping in order to reach their flagship . . . and board it’. He failed. The
following day Medina Sidonia complained that:
The enemy’s fleet has come to bombard me so that we have had to turn and face
them, and most days they have bombarded us from morning until night,
without ever letting themselves to go alongside our armada, even though for
my part I have done everything possible and given them every occasion —
sometimes our ships have been in the middle of their fleet, all to the end that
one of their ships should board and so bring on the battle.
English naval writers agreed on the crucial role of boarding. Sir Walter Raleigh
later drew attention to the naval battle off Sao Miguel in 1582, at which the
victory of Philip’s fleet had hung in the balance until one ship managed to grapple
the enemy flagship and thus brought on a general melee in which boarding could
take place. Had Howard of Effingham allowed this to happen in 1588, Raleigh
believed he would have been lost too.^^ It is easy to see why: the Spanish fleet
carried almost 20,000 soldiers — more than enough to overwhelm all the queen’s
ships, which carried only sailors and gunners, had the two fleets become entangled.
Howard and his subordinates fully realized this, which is why they took care
to avoid contact with any Spanish vessel; but their success in doing so stemmed
from more than just tactical skill.
Elizabeth’s naval experts had also grasped the vital equation later adumbrated
by Admiral ‘Jackie’ Fisher, the patron of the later and more famous Dreadnought'.
‘Strategy should govern the types of ships to be designed. Ship design, as dictated
by strategy, should govern tactics. Tactics should govern details of armament.’^”
Like Fisher, they realized that to protect England effectively against foreign
invasion by more numerous opponents required a fleet of ships capable of using
stand-off gunnery to keep its enemies at bay until their ships had been either
disabled or driven away. They also realized that a government with a coastline to
defend that declared war and only then started to mobilize its navy ran grave risks,
for a wooden capital ship exceeded the size of many a country house, carried
more artillery than a fortress, and required over a year to construct; even after that,
it took time to train the officers, gunners and crews for combat. Philip II had
started late: having maintained a powerful fleet of galleys and galleasses in the
Mediterranean throughout his reign, he only began to create a High Seas fleet in
the 1580s — between 1582 and 1584 he ordered nine galleons to be constructed
at Santander to serve as escorts for the American treasure fleets, and between 1583
and 1586 he had six more large galleons built for the defence of Portugal. Late in
1587 he authorized a crash programme of cannon-founding at Lisbon — even
agreeing that the new guns need not bear the royal arms, in order to save time and
money — although in March 1588 he still feared (rightly, as it turned out) that too
many of his ships either had too few guns or lacked sufficient guns of heavy
calibre.He failed, however, to devise an effective operational doctrine for his new
armament.
Philip also failed to devise realistic contingency plans. Admittedly he recognized
that, since Elizabeth had enjoyed ample opportunity to improve her
defences on land, Parma’s army might become bogged down in Kent. Parma’s
final instructions (this time only sent aboard the fleet, perhaps so that the duke
would not have a chance to complain before putting them into effect) therefore
decreed that the presence of Spanish forces on English soil should be used to secure
three concessions. First, Catholics throughout the realm must be granted toleration
and freedom of worship. Second, all English troops must withdraw from the
Netherlands, surrendering directly to Spanish forces the towns they held (especially
Flushing, which controlled the sea approaches to Antwerp). Third, England
should pay a war indemnity — although Parma might drop this demand in return
for the main concessions.' Philip also foresaw that his fleet might not, in the end,
manage to join forces with Parma: then (but only then) he authorized Medina to
return and occupy the Isle of Wight. He only turned his thoughts to other
possibilities on hearing of the battle of Gravelines and his reaction dramatically
illuminates the shortcomings of his overall style of command. On 31 August
1588 he prepared a long memorandum telling the two dukes what they should do
if the Armada took refuge in either Scotland or Emden (refit, and discuss ways of
effecting the invasion the following year), or if it started on the journey back to
Spain (put some troops ashore near Waterford, in order to create a bridgehead for
operations the following year). On 15 September, even more unrealistically (as the
battered remnants of the fleet anxiously neared the coast of Spain), his ministers
drafted orders for Medina Sidonia to land in Scotland, ally with the local Catholics,
and winter there.
The Guns of August lErj
268
These attempts by men with no direct experience whatsoever of naval warfare
to dictate complex operational choices i ,000 kilometres (and at least two weeks)
away highlight once more a critical structural defect in Philip IPs Grand Strategy.
To be sure, the king’s improvised hybrid Armada succeeded (albeit only just)
against Dom Antonio’s equally heterogeneous force off the Azores in 1582; but
the integrated fleet of Elizabeth presented a very different type of challenge
because, from the 1570s onward, her naval experts deliberately sought to link her
simple yet realistic defence strategy with the appropriate tactics and thus (just as
Admiral Fisher later advocated) with an equally appropriate ship design: the
heavily gunned ‘race-built’ galleon. Philip and his advisers, by contrast, devoted
little thought to such matters: although the king acquired much useful information
on English naval tactics he failed to see their significance (an ironic parallel
with Elizabeth’s inability to draw the correct conclusions from her intelligence
about Philip’s intentions). Instead he devised a Grand Strategy that depended for
success on operational brilliance by his subordinates — and then proceeded to tie
their hands, forbidding both Medina and Parma to depart from their detailed
instructions. The king relied on miracles rather than on ministers to overcome any
deficiencies. ‘I have dedicated this enterprise to God,’ he scolded Medina when the
duke wanted to abandon the enterprise. ‘Get on then and do your part’ (p. 107
above). Philip’s flawed ‘management style’ frustrated the Armada’s success far
more than the loss of secrecy, the lack of communication between the two theatre
commanders and the technical differences between the two fleets. His refusal to
delegate, his ‘zero-defects mentality’, his self-generated information overload and
his messianic outlook produced grave strategic errors that rendered operational
success almost impossible.
The Execution of Grand Strategy
\ 10 After the Armada
Philip IPs attempt to conquer England in 1588 affected different people in
different ways. The mother of Thomas Hobbes, the future political philosopher,
‘fell in labour with him upon the fright of the invasion of the Spaniards’; by
contrast the future High Court judge James Whitelocke, then a freshman at
Oxford, dismissed in his journal ‘the terrible shew of the sea armada from Spaigne’
as just ‘a little distemper to the quiet course of study’.^ Some of their compatriots
developed a sudden urge to learn Spanish: the first Spanish—English dictionary
came out shortly afterwards (compiled with the aid of some Armada prisoners), as
did translations of several Spanish works, especially military.^ For the thousands
of English sailors who died aboard the victorious fleet and for their families,
however, the Armada proved a catastrophe; while for their government it almost
brought bankruptcy — in July, as he listed the outstanding obligations that he
could not pay. Lord Treasurer Burghley insensitively marvelled that, although the
number of men aboard the fleet dwindled through disease and death, their wage
bill did not (see p. 227 above). Even success had its cost: England now faced an
implacable foe who would need to be opposed with a well-maintained navy at sea
as well as with subsidies and expeditionary forces on the continent. As Secretary
of State Walsingham sighed in 1589 of the expensive Dutch alliance: ‘I wyshe
that our fortune and theirs were not so straytely tyed as yt is, so as we cannot well
untye withowt great hasard’.^ England fought on for another fifteen years,
plunging the Tudor state deep into debt.
The impact of the Armada upon Spain, of course, far exceeded this. Philip II
himself put the cost of the abortive enterprise at 10 million ducats, and the taxes
voted to make good the deficit provoked rioting in some cities of Castile and
depopulation in parts of the countryside."* Other losses proved less easy to remedy:
almost all of Spain’s experienced naval commanders died, became prisoners or
suffered disgrace (of the eight squadron commanders who left Lisbon in May 1588
only one, Martin de Bertendona, remained at his post in December); and at least
half of the soldiers and sailors who sailed for England perished before the year
ended — a total of perhaps 15,000 men. Even in hospital, survivors continued to
die of illnesses contracted during the journey, while the families of the missing
269
The Execution of Grand Strategy
moved forlornly from one northern port to another in search of news. According
to one friar at the Escorial, ‘it was the greatest disaster to strike Spain in over six
hundred years’, while another deemed it a misfortune ‘worthy to be wept over for
ever . . . because it lost us the respect and good reputation that we used to have
among warlike people . . . The grief it caused in all of Spain was extraordinary:
almost the entire country went into mourning . . . People talked of nothing else.’^
Criticisms of the king and of his expensive policies, which had largely ceased since
the conquest of Portugal, now recommenced. Some blamed him for choosing a
strategy that ‘could never have worked’; others even attributed the failure to his
personal sins. The ‘nun of Lisbon’ began to have nationalist dreams, claiming that
‘the kingdom of Portugal does not belong to Philip II but to the Braganza family’,
until the Inquisition arrested her (and found that her ‘stigmata’ washed off with
soap and water); while in Madrid the widely reported dreams of Lucrecia de Leon
also turned to politics — criticizing Philip for oppression of the poor, squandering
tax revenues on the Escorial, and failing to maintain the greatness of Spain — until
the Inquisition arrested her too.^
The scale of the disaster, and the criticisms it occasioned, affected the king. On
31 August, when the first news arrived from Parma that the junction with Medina
Sidonia had not taken place. Secretary of State Idiaquez could not
exaggerate the grief caused by seeing something that cost so much time, money
and trouble — and is so important to the service of God and His Majesty —
placed in jeopardy, just at the point where it was about to bear fruit. His
Majesty has felt it more than you would believe possible, and without some
remaining hope in God that all this might have achieved something for His
cause ... I do not know how he could bear such a great blow. Certainly this
leaves no time to think about anything else, nor to think of it without excessive
grief.
The passage of time brought no relief. Four days later, a courier from France
brought more detailed news concerning the Armada’s ignominious northward
flight. The ministers blanched, and debated which of them should break the
news to the king. The choice fell upon Mateo Vazquez; but even he elected to
work through an intermediary, forwarding a letter from a (singularly tactless)
courtier which suggested that ‘when we consider the case of King Louis IX of
France, who was a saint and was engaged on a saintly enterprise {the Seventh
Crusade in 1250}, and yet saw his army die of plague, with himself defeated and
captured, we certainly cannot fail to fear greatly for the outcome [of our enterprise}’.
This proved too much for the king: ‘I hope that God has not permitted so
much evil,’ he scribbled angrily on the letter, ‘for everything has been done for
His service’.^
Even when news of the disaster that had befallen the fleet began to arrive, about
a month later, the king’s stoicism persisted. In October, for example, he ordered
prayers for the fleet’s success to cease, to be replaced by a solemn thanksgiving
270 After the Armada
Mass in each diocese that not everything had been lost and a new round of
devotions ‘by all clerics, and other suitably devout persons . . . entrusting to Our
Lord most sincerely in their private and secret prayers all my actions, so that His
Divine Majesty may direct and guide them to whatever may serve Him, the
exaltation of His church, and the good and conservation of Christendom - which
is what I desire’.^ As reports of the losses relentlessly multiplied, however, Philip
came to feel that God had abandoned him. One day in November 1588 - as on at
least one occasion during the crisis of 1574 (p. 43 above) - he confided to his
secretary that he longed for death because:
Very soon we shall find ourselves in such a state that we shall wish that we had
never been born . . . And if God does not send us a miracle (which is what I
hope from Him), I hope to die and go to Him before this happens — which is
what I pray for, so as not to see so much misfortune and disgrace . . . Please God
let me be mistaken, although I do not think I am. Rather we shall have to
witness, quicker than anyone thinks, what we so much fear, unless God returns
to support His cause.^
The king’s depression did not last long, however. Two days later he ordered the
council of State to discuss the correct policy to follow in the light of the Armada’s
failure; and when they forwarded a report that unanimously rejected a defensive
posture (on the grounds that it would cost almost as much as a new offensive but
would do nothing to bring the war to an end), and instead urged the concentration
of forces for a new expedition that would ‘sail straight to England and try to
conquer it’, the king welcomed it with enthusiasm.
I rejoiced greatly to read all that these papers said, which corresponds perfectly
to what one might expect from those who said it, and to the intention that has
inclined me to this enterprise since the beginning, for the service of Our Lord,
the defence of His cause and the benefit of these realms ... I undertake to deal
swiftly with everything necessary to achieve all this, and to remember all the
things that are necessary ... I shall never fail to stand up for the cause of God
and the well-being of these kingdoms.
The king now asked the Cortes to vote a new tax to cover the cost of these
measures. Here too he met with a favourable response: ‘Everything possible must
be done ... to defeat [the English}, to repair the recent loss, and to restore
the reputation of our nation,’ the proctor from Toledo asserted, and in 1590 the
assembly voted a new tax of 8 million ducats payable over six years.
Almost immediately a Spanish High Seas fleet began to take shape. The
Armada of 1588 had included few royal ships - the galleons of Portugal;
the Mediterranean galleasses; the escort vessels from the transatlantic convoys —
but now the king ordered the construction of new galleons with a more streamlined
design and a 22-gun broadside, while his captain-general of artillery called
271
272 The Execution of Grand Strategy
for ‘Each ship to carry guns that are appropriate to its size and weight, and of a sort
that can do damage from a distance because of their good range, and from close
range wreak notable destruction on the enemy fleet.’ By 1591, 21 new galleons
and 500 tons of naval ordnance had entered service, and in that year Spain’s
reconstituted navy drove the main English fleet away from the Azores, where it
had hoped to intercept the returning treasure fleet, and captured the Revenge. By
1598 Philip’s Atlantic fleet numbered 53 royal warships. To the Italian political
philosopher Giovanni Botero, writing at this time, the Spanish Monarchy
appeared a sort of thalassocracy whose component parts, although separated
from one another, ‘should not be deemed disconnected because . . . they are united
by the sea. There is not a dominion, however distant it may be, that cannot
be defended by naval force’.
The king and his ministers had learned a good deal from the strategic and
tactical miscalculations of the 1570s and 1580s. Almost immediately, however,
developments elsewhere began to compromise their new plan. In January 1589
news arrived that Henry III had murdered the duke of Guise, Philip’s client and
ally, the previous month. Everyone immediately recognized that the task of
defending the Catholics of France now devolved upon Spain, and that ‘the amount
of money required will ruin the preparations we are making here’ to attack
Elizabeth again. They therefore resolved that aid to the League should remain
clandestine for as long as possible because, as one councillor put it:
The temptation to declare war on France is great; nevertheless, when we
consider the state of this Monarchy, the open war with England (so powerful at
sea), and the pressure that our rebels and enemies [in the Netherlands} will
bring to bear on His Majesty, we must not declare war on France under any
circumstances.'^
The king agreed: he continued to restrict his support for the French Catholic cause
to discreet (albeit substantial) financial assistance. His only change of policy
concerned the duke of Savoy’s seizure of the strategic French enclave of Saluzzo at
the end of 1588: having initially resolved to order its return, in the light of
Guise’s murder he now agreed that Savoy should retain it.'^ In all other respects
Philip continued to concentrate on England.
His plan of campaign soon became just as unrealistic as that of the preceding
year. In May 1589, as part of his new strategy to ‘wage war in the enemy’s own
house’, he sent money to enable Parma to prepare men and ships for a surprise
attack on the Isle of Wight that would create a diversion while a new fleet from
Spain sailed up the Channel to deliver the coup de grace. The decision to involve the
Army of Flanders once again flew in the face of almost all the advice tendered to
the king: even before the Armada set forth the previous year Bernardino de
Escalante, the soldier-priest who had played a large part in devising the initial
strategy (see p. 186 above), sent an urgent warning against making a junction
between Parma and Medina Sidonia the essential prelude for the invasion; and
After the Armada 273
afterwards he, like many other commentators (including some participants),
blamed this requirement for the failure of the enterprise.'^
In the event the new plan remained a dead letter because a massive (if mismanaged)
Anglo-Dutch fleet attacked both Spain and Portugal for most of the
summer of 1589, twice putting ashore an expeditionary force (something the
Armada had totally failed to do) and causing widespread panic, while another
English squadron lay off the Azores hoping to ambush the returning treasure
fleets.'^ In addition, a Catholic fanatic murdered the French king, transforming
the entire strategic scene. In many ways Henry III had served Philip’s purposes
well. Although fundamentally hostile to Spain, Henry lacked the resources to do
much, especially after the death of his brother Anjou in 1584: his Protestant and
his Catholic subjects despised and distrusted him in almost equal measure, and
the royal treasury lay empty. The only scenario that might have seemed preferable
to Philip would have been Henry’s death, leaving a healthy young son to be
brought up by the Guise family during a lengthy minority; but Henry, like all his
brothers, sired no legitimate male children and so after his death a good number
of his French subjects and all of his Protestant neighbours immediately recognized
his nearest male relative, Henry of Navarre the Huguenot leader, as King
Henry IV.
Philip could not accept this — indeed he did not even recognize Henry’s title to
Navarre (he himself claimed to be its king and referred to Henry dismissively as
‘Vendome’) - and so warned the duke of Parma of the critical implications of these
developments in France:
My principal aim [there] is to secure the well-being of the Faith, and to see that
in France Catholicism survives and heresy is excluded ... If, in order to ensure
this exclusion and to aid the Catholics so that they prevail, you see that it is
necessary for my troops to enter France openly [then you must lead them in}.
This would inevitably mean both postponing the surprise attack on the Isle of
Wight - even had it proved feasible - and scaling down the war against the
Dutch; so, the king continued prudently, since
The affairs of France create obligations that we cannot fail to fulfil because of
their extreme importance; and since we must not undertake too many things at
once, because of the risk that they will all fail (and because my treasury will not
allow it), it seems that we must do something about the war in the Netherlands,
reducing it to a defensive footing.
Philip therefore ordered that the elite troops of the Army of Flanders should
be maintained on stand-by, ready to intervene in France immediately should
need arise.
Parma, fearing the strategic dilemma that now threatened to engulf him,
responded with the suggestion that the king should open peace talks with the
274 The Execution of Grand Strategy
Dutch, offering to permit the private exercise of Calvinist worship in certain
towns of Holland and Zealand for an indefinite period if ‘the rebels’ promised to
‘return to obedience’ (which he construed as ordering the demobilization of their
armed forces and the open toleration of Catholic worship). The king’s councillors
in Madrid debated this peace plan indecisively in November 1589: on the one
hand, they recognized that to concede toleration to the Dutch would forfeit ‘the
claim His Majesty has made, and the reputation he has won at the cost of so much
treasure and so many lives, not to concede one jot or tittle in matters of religion’;
on the other, they lamented, ‘to attempt to conquer the rebellious provinces by
force is to speak of a war without end’. The king agreed: he resolved to ask the
pope either to start contributing directly to the cost of fighting the Dutch (‘since
this war is being waged solely for religion’) or to permit peace talks to begin. In
the meantime Parma received authorization to see whether the rebels might be
willing to negotiate a settlement.
Yet again, however, new strategic pressures intervened. In February 1590,
Henry of Navarre’s decision to blockade Paris (the League’s capital since the Day
of the Barricades, p. 200 above) raised the possibility that unless the French
Catholics received open and substantial military aid their resistance might collapse.
The Spanish council of State now debated a number of possible strategies:
a descent by Parma and the Army of Flanders in the north to relieve Paris; landing
an expeditionary force from Spain in Brittany in the west; and a thrust by land
forces from Aragon into Languedoc or Bearn in the south. The council felt that
one operation would not be enough to save the Catholic cause, whereas three
would overtax Spain’s resources; they therefore suggested that the fleet destined
for a new assault on England should instead land troops in Brittany, while the
Army of Flanders should invade northern France instead of attacking the Isle of
Wight. Navarre’s crushing victory over his Catholic opponents at Ivry in March
1590 confirmed the need for action and, immediately upon hearing of the battle,
Philip informed Parma that ‘the strategy for assisting the French Catholic cause
that I have followed, although the correct one until now, will not serve any
longer’. He commanded the duke to invade France at once with 20,000 men.
They left the Netherlands in late July and entered Paris in triumph in September.
One month later an expeditionary force of 3,000 men from Spain arrived at St
Nazaire in Brittany both to reinforce the French Catholics there and to create
a fortified base for future operations against England.The king saw no alternative
to these expensive commitments. As he explained to one of his wealthiest
subjects, as he requested a donation:
Everybody knows about the great, continuous and unavoidable expenses that I
have incurred for many years past to defend our holy Catholic faith and to
conserve my kingdoms and lordships, and how they have grown immensely
through the war with England and the developments in France; but I have not
been able to avoid them, both because I have such a specific obligation to God
After the Armada 275
and the world to act, and also because if the heretics were to prevail (which I
hope God will not allow) it might open the door to worse damage and dangers,
and to war at home.
At least the king decided to reconsider his position on the Dutch problem:
in November 1590 he informed the pope that he stood ready to concede
toleration to his rebels for a limited time in return for recognition of his
sovereignty, and requested the appointment of papal and imperial intermediaries
to handle negotiations to secure this. He even hoped for a cease-fire during the
talks.
Naturally, he hoped in vain. As in 1576 (see p. 144 above) the king’s decision
to offer important concessions — made only when he really had no alternative —
came too late. Although the Dutch went through the motions of negotiating, as
soon as Parma intervened in France they launched a series of campaigns which
recovered much of Gelderland and Overijssel in 1591—92. So Philip now found
himself with not one but three ‘voracious monsters gobbling up the troops and
treasure of Spain’.In 1591 a fourth appeared: a ham-fisted attempt by the
government to extradite a fugitive from justice in Zaragoza provoked major
rioting which turned into open rebellion in September. The following month,
with remarkable promptitude, a royal army of 14,000 troops invaded Aragon and
swiftly restored order — but only at a cost of almost 1.5 million ducats, diverted
from the funds earmarked for Philip’s wars abroad.
The rapidly worsening strategic position of the Monarchy alarmed the king. In
January 1591, even before the troubles in Aragon, Philip regretted that the affairs
of his Monarchy ‘do not depend on my will, or on my wanting it, but rather on
many other matters that are hard to arrange. Everything is in a terrible state unless
God remedies it’. The following month Mateo Vazquez warned his master that ‘if
God had placed Your Majesty under an obligation to remedy all the troubles of
the world. He would have given you the money and the strength to do so’; while
in September 1591 Escalante advised that under no circumstances should Spain
intervene openly in France or use force in Aragon — rather, all available resources
should remain reserved for operations against England. Escalante compared the
Anglo-Spanish struggle to that of Rome against Carthage, and argued that
only a direct attack on England would stop Elizabeth and her subjects from
supporting the Dutch, ravaging the Indies, and attacking Spanish ports and ships.
Admittedly, Philip’s decision to intervene openly in France achieved important
short-term results (without it, the League would almost certainly have collapsed
in 1592); but now the two sides in the French civil war stood fairly evenly
matched so that Spain — just as Escalante had predicted — faced the prospect of
another ‘war without end’ to sustain. In this stressful situation, as in earlier crises,
the king oscillated between bitter fatalism and messianic euphoria. He may never
have seen Escalante’s (somewhat verbose) admonition; but to Vazquez he replied
grandly:
j.
276 The Execution of Grand Strategy
I know you are moved by the great zeal you have for my service to say what you
did, but you must also understand that these are not matters that can be
abandoned by a person who is as conscientious about his responsibilities as you
know me to be.
‘The cause of religion’, the king concluded, ‘must take precedence over everything’.^^
Like his Bourbon descendants two centuries later, Philip seemed to have
learned nothing and forgotten nothing.
If the principles of Philip’s Grand Strategy remained the same despite the
Armada’s failure, so did the practice. He continued to rely on God to intervene in
case Spain’s resources alone proved inadequate. Thus in October 1596 he deployed
precisely the same arsenal of spiritual blackmail that he had used in the past
against Alba, Santa Cruz and Medina Sidonia, in order to persuade the dispirited
commander of his new High Seas fleet to sail immediately against England.
I tell you again and order you expressly ... to leave in the name of God and do
what I have ordered in the voyage and in the whole campaign. Although I see
that the season is advanced, and the risks that this poses, we have to trust in
God (who has done so much for us) in this. To stop what we have begun now
would be to show weakness in His service, to spend money without profit, and
to find ourselves without troops in time of need. Since these are definite
disadvantages, it would not be sensible to allow them. It is also [our] Christian
duty to put into effect what we have done and you, in any case, must aid me
now to achieve it. May God guide you, and I trust in Him that there will be
much to thank Him — and you — for.^"*
Furthermore, the king still permitted no debate over his perception of Spain’s
strategic needs. When Admiral Bertendona went to Court in June 1589 and
requested an opportunity to give his sovereign some advice ‘in case there should
be a campaign against England next year’, Philip characteristically replied: ‘you
can tell me about it in writing, since there is no opportunity to do it in person’.
Equally characteristically, shortly afterwards he asked Bertendona to send him
detailed information on naval affairs, ‘because I would like to be informed of what
occurs to you for when we take a decision on the matters you raise’.
Although after the death of Mateo Vazquez in 1591 the volume of Philip’s
surviving personal papers dwindles dramatically, making it harder to generalize
about his intentions, nothing suggests a major change in his outlook or his
priorities. He took some anti-tax riots in Castile and the revolt of Aragon in his
stride, and when some proctors in the Cortes of Castile protested in 1596 against
the heavy expenditure on foreign wars, pointing out that ‘although the wars
against the Dutch, the English and the French are holy and just, we must beg
Your Majesty that they may cease’, Philip firmly rebuked the representatives of
the people for their presumption.
After the Armada 277
They should and must put their trust in me, in the love I have for these
kingdoms, and in the long experience I have in governing them, [and accept]
that I shall always do what is in their best interests. Speak to them at length in
this vein and advise them that they are never, on any pretext, to come to me
with such a suggestion again.
He also took more practical steps to neutralize this opposition: ‘the theologians of
Madrid should be forewarned’, he wrote, ‘so that if the deputies of the Cortes
should turn to them for advice, they may include in their opinions a full account
of my case’ (more sinister, he also expected the theologians to report the intentions
of their advisees to his agents). The government furthermore ordered theologians
in the other towns represented in the Cortes ‘to assure the consciences of the
scrupulous’ and to mobilize support for royal policies both through personal
meetings and through written (sometimes published) tracts.
These repeated efforts at spiritual blackmail reflected a perceptible reduction in
Philip’s ability to get things done. In the early 1590s, every morning he discussed
financial and domestic business with his chamberlain, Don Cristobal de Moura,
who also dressed him and massaged his feet; after lunch he handled Italian and
Aragonese business with the count of Chinchon; and he spent every afternoon and
evening with his principal secretary of state, Don Juan de Idiaquez, dealing with
foreign affairs. As the years passed, the king spent more time at prayer, more time
asleep, and more time sick: illness prevented him from transacting business in
May and June 1595, in March and April 1596, in spring 1597 and for most of
1598, the year of his death. After 1595 he spent most of his days in the sixteenthcentury
equivalent of a wheelchair — a sort of lounger with movable positions from
vertical to horizontal — in which he ate, worked and slept, wearing loose garments
that did not put pressure on his arthritic joints (Plate 33). He could not manage
to stand for the last two years of his life. Although in 1594 he began to make use
of Prince Philip for routine decisions, and although after 1597 the prince signed
all outgoing orders, the king relied increasingly on Moura to convey his commands
to all ortgans of state and his meandering apostils on incoming documents
gave way to those of his chamberlain who now decided ‘the business of all his
kingdoms, councils, armies, fleets, ministers and treasury’.
Moura and his ailing master could not always produce the results they wanted:
they and their overworked associates encountered with increasing frequency the
response ‘I obey but I do not execute.’ Thus in 1596 the king intervened personally
to command the governor of Milan to expel the small Jewish community from
the state (something he had attempted unsuccessfully in the past), adding with his
own hand the threat that ‘If this is not done at once, it will be necessary to send
someone from here to do it’; three months later, however, another letter was
required, promising to ‘discover and punish whoever is to blame for these
delays’.In October 1597 the sailors aboard the High Seas fleet refused direct
orders to set sail against England: astonished observers witnessed the commanderin-
chief, Don Martin de Padilla, whose ship (alone) had put to sea, coming back
278
Plate 33 Philip II in his
‘wheelchair’ and ‘babygro suit’,
from Jehan Lhermite’s
Passetemps. Philip lived longer
than any other member of his
dynasty, but for his last two
years arthritis prevented him
from standing up. His Flemish
valet, Jehan Lhermite, described
and illustrated the special loosefitting
garments that the king
wore in order to ease the
pressure on his joints, and also
the ingenious chair with various
settings that enabled him both
to sit and sleep without having
to stand. From this contraption
— in which he also travelled
between his various palaces — he
governed his world-wide empire
until his last illness in 1598.
in a skiff an<d being rowed from one ship to another ‘going to extraordinary
lengths to force them out of the harbour ... on account of the ill-will they felt
towards the enterprise, seeing how late in the season it was and the great dearth
of everything necessary for a successful outcome’.
Meanwhile, mutinies disabled the king’s armies both in France (forcing his
commanders to make a truce with Henry IV in 1593) and in the Netherlands
(where at least twenty military revolts occurred between 1589 and 1598). In
1595, a beleaguered theatre commander of the Army of Flanders invited his
superiors ‘to consider the misery and desperation of the poor soldiers in Friesland
and Gelderland, and how much courage they will have to resist the enemies’ forces
with empty stomachs’. Spanish troops in Brittany wasted one opportunity after
another for lack of support, and armies sent to reinforce the French Catholic bases
in Burgundy and Languedoc both failed miserably.^^ Philip’s only success in this
period was to prolong the Irish rebellion against Elizabeth: in May 1596 its
leader, the earl of Tyrone, had been on the point of making peace when Spanish
agents arrived bearing promises of aid, closely followed by some much-needed
munitions. England took its revenge two months later, when a large amphibious
force captured Cadiz and held it unchallenged for two weeks. As the invaders
After the Armada 279
sailed away they smugly noted that the fires they had started in the city ‘kept on
burning in our view until Wednesday night following, at which time we lost
sight thereof’. In addition, the invaders took away with them two of Philip’s new
galleons (and two more only escaped the same fate because their crews set fire to
them first). Spain’s merchant fleet at Cadiz, preparing to sail to America, lost
twenty-eight ships and goods worth 4 million ducats.
Eventually, as in 1575—76, prodigal expenditure on too many fronts led first to
financial and then to moral collapse. In November 1596, Philip once again
suspended all payments from his treasury and began to recognize the unavoidable
need to make peace, at least temporarily, with some of his enemies. The following
year he accepted papal offers to mediate a settlement with Henry IV of Prance, and
the peace signed at Vervins in May 1598 in essence confirmed the terms agreed at
Cateau-Cambresis thirty-nine years before. Admittedly Philip lost no territory,
but he had spent millions of ducats - and sacrificed numerous outposts in the
Netherlands to the Dutch - in order to oblige Henry of Navarre to become a
Catholic again.^^ Later in 1598 he also signed an act bequeathing the Netherlands
to his daughter, Isabella, betrothed to his nephew Albert (son of Maximilian and
Maria, whom Charles V had once considered making rulers of the Netherlands:
pp. 88—9 above). They were to be independent of Spain in all matters except
foreign policy and defence, for Philip intended to maintain the Army of Planders
at full strength both to defend the new sovereigns against the Dutch, and as a
weapon to use in the continuing war against England. The king hoped that the
partial severance of the link between Spain and the Netherlands — under discussion
since the 1540s - would restore a balance of power in Europe and therefore
reduce the international pressure on his Monarchy.
Philip III, who succeeded in September 1598, continued his late father’s
policies: he confirmed the transfer of the Netherlands to his sister and brother-inlaw
and supplied them with the resources to mount a new offensive against the
Dutch; he avoided war with France (even in 1600 when Henry IV attacked his
other brother-in-law, the duke of Savoy); and he made new efforts to defeat
England. All these initiatives failed. In 1599 a new Armada intended to attack
England had to be diverted to defend the Azores against a powerful Anglo-Dutch
fleet. In 1601 when Spain finally managed to put an army ashore to support the
Irish rebellion led by the earl of Tyrone against Elizabeth, it landed at Kinsale, far
from the rebels’ bases and (in effect) lured Tyrone to defeat by forcing him to
march hundreds of miles in the depths of winter to Kinsale, where the English lay
in wait. The Spaniards capitulated soon afterwards and went home, leaving the
Irish leaders to surrender and do homage to Elizabeth. Meanwhile mutinies
continued to paralyse the Army of Flanders and in 1600 the Dutch inflicted heavy
losses at the battle of Nieuwpoort. Undeterred, Philip III continued his efforts to
achieve victory in the Netherlands and in 1602 promised (in terms reminiscent of
his father) that ‘in order to restore those provinces entirely to the Catholic faith
and to ensure that they do not leave obedience to . . . this crown, I will devote and
venture everything that God has entrusted to me, and my own person’. England,
28o The Execution of Grand Strategy
however, was different: following the death of Elizabeth in 1603 Philip concluded
first a cease-fire and then a peace with her successor, James VI of Scotland, which
more or less restored the pre-war situation. Philip received no promises of toleration
for English Catholics or of English abstention from trade in the East and
West Indies. But at least the peace left Spain free to concentrate - for the first time
since 1585 - on the Netherlands. Despite some highly successful campaigns
there, however, in 1609 Philip III signed a Twelve Year Truce which explicitly
recognized the rebellious provinces ‘as if they were a sovereign nation’, with no
obligation either to admit Spanish sovereignty or to tolerate any religion besides
Calvinism — the two issues on which Spain had insisted since 1572. Nor would
they agree to keep the peace outside Europe.
Philip IPs strategic achievements fell far short of expectations, and the pessimistic
assessments of his Monarchy by Balthasar Alamos de Barrientos and Martin
Gonzalez de Cellorigo just after the king’s death (p. 108 above) contained much
truth. Despite huge sacrifices of men, money and prestige he failed to preserve the
territories he had inherited from his father: the seven northern provinces of the
Netherlands never again accepted Habsburg rule or papal authority and their
ships traded with impunity from the 1590s onwards in the Americas, Africa and
Asia, forcing Spain to spend heavily on defence. England, too, remained defiantly
outside both the Habsburg orbit and the Catholic church, and its vessels also
sailed to America and to Africa: privateering at the expense of Philip’s subjects
enriched many Elizabethans. Even in the Mediterranean, Dutch and English
merchants defied Spanish prohibitions and traded with both Christian and Muslim
states, forming clandestine alliances with many of Philip’s enemies. Spanish
influence in Germany reached its nadir in the 1590s when the princes of the
empire mobilized against the Army of Flanders as it attempted to winter in
Westphalia; and although Philip’s pressure forced Henry of Navarre to reconvert
to Catholicism in order to end the French Religious Wars, he remained Spain’s
implacable foe. To be sure, Philip added both the Portuguese empire and the
Philippines to his possessions, but by the end of the reign it had become clear that
he could not defend the former adequately and within another decade the latter
had entered a semi-permanent state of siege. Both cost far more to defend than
they ever produced in revenues for the crown. Finally, within Spain, a devastating
plague epidemic struck a population already weakened by a run of bad harvests:
in the words of Mateo Aleman’s mordant novel of 1599, Guzman de Alfar ache, ‘the
hunger that rose from Andalusia met the plague that descended from Castile’.
Perhaps 10 per cent of the kingdom’s population died and men began to write
openly of ‘the decline of Spain’.
To what extent, historians may wonder, did the policies of Philip II contribute
to this series of disasters, and to what extent were they the inevitable consequences
of structural factors? Might another strategic culture, a different Grand Strategy,
or a better execution of policy have secured a different outcome?
Conclusion: Agent and Structure
It cannot be a law that all nations shall fall after a certain number of years. God
does not work in that sort of way: they must have broken some law of nature
which has caused them to fall. But are all nations to sink in that way? As if
national soil, like the soil of the earth, must lie fallow after a certain number of
crops. And will England turn into Piets again after a certain number of harvest
years? Or will a nation find out at last the laws of God by which she may make
a steady progression?
(Florence Nightingale, letter from Egypt, 1849)^
In the decade after the Armada many searched for some ‘law of nature’ that would
explain Spain’s various strategic failures. Don Martin de Padilla, the unsuccessful
commander of the armadas of 1596 and 1597, noted that:
Although our desire to reduce the Netherlands and England to the obedience
of God and Your Majesty is, of itself, good, it seems that God has not wanted
to accept this service, a circumstance that must arouse great concern because
Our Lord does not usually inflict such reverses except for very good reasons. We
have attributed past losses to material causes — sometimes blaming the councillors,
sometimes the storms and other things — keeping our eyes on the stone
that harmed us and not on the arm from which it came. Therefore the deductions
we drew from one failure only set us up for another, thinking that if last
year we went wrong by leaving too late, next year we would succeed if we got
ready earlier; and so God permitted the selfsame errors that caused the past
reverses to cause the next ones.^
Many Spanish analysts did indeed tend to ‘keep their eyes on the stone that
harmed us’ — even in the 1620s and 1630s, men continued to ascribe the
Armada’s fate in 1588 solely to material factors such as the inferior design of
Spanish galleons — but Padilla himself had already drawn a different conclusion.
Immediately after the humiliating English capture and sack of Cadiz he warned
Philip:
281
282 Conclusion: Agent and Structure
No power exists that can maintain continuous wars, and even for the greatest
monarch it is important to conclude wars rapidly. There will be many who
would consider this desirable, saying that the policy we now follow will never
end the war and that the expenditure in men and money is enormous; and that
if another cure is not found the patient will soon die.
Padilla therefore recommended concentrating all the king’s resources for a while
on just one objective — another all-out attack on England — which would force
Elizabeth to make a peace favourable to Spain, ushering in what ‘will with reason
be called a happy and golden century’. He was disappointed: although some
detected a ‘siglo dorado’, few considered it happy.
After Philip’s death Padilla addressed another withering assessment of Spain’s
strategic culture to the new king.
I have been much grieved for some years past to see that, for motives of
economy, expeditions are undertaken with such small forces that they principally
serve to irritate our enemies, rather than to punish them. The worst of it
is that wars thus become chronic, and the expense and trouble resulting from
long continued wars are endless.
Other ministers took up Padilla’s theme. According to the duke of Sessa, an
experienced diplomat.
We flit so rapidly from one area to another, without making a major effort in
one and then, when that is finished, in another ... I do not know why we eat
so many snacks but never a real meal! I would like to join everything together,
so that we could perhaps do something worthwhile — either in Ireland or in
North Africa — but I fear that, as usual, we shall do both and thus only lose
time, men, money and reputation.
For both Padilla and Sessa, the central defect of Spanish Grand Strategy lay in
taking on too many commitments, which fatally compromised the government’s
ability to succeed in any of them. Admittedly, Philip II had tried to concentrate
all his available resources on delivering a rapid knock-out blow whenever a new
problem occurred: against the French in Florida in 1565—66, in the Netherlands
in 1566—67 (with total success) and again in 1572—73 (with almost total success),
against Portugal and the Azores in 1580—83 (again with total success), and
against England in 1586—88. If the initial blow miscarried, however, he seemed
incapable of cutting his losses; instead, his forces continued to fight on several
fronts, despite the fact that the Monarchy’s other commitments could not be
ignored indefinitely, and despite the risk that (as the duke of Alba put it in 1573
‘if some new problem, however small, were to arise. His Majesty’s resources are so
exhausted that he might not have the strength to resist’.^
Conclusion: Agent and Structure 283
Why, then, did Philip wait so long before concluding settlements that could have
been made years (if not decades) before? First, and most obvious, no political
leader likes to lose; but there is more to this simple statement than meets the eye.
International relations analysts have found that ‘prospect theory’ helps to explain
why statesmen act with such tenacity to retain what they have: government
policy, they argue, is shaped by individuals who — like most people — tend to
think in terms of gains and losses, rather than of assets. Because the psychological
world is not symmetrical, however, most people seem prepared to take more risks
to avoid a loss than to make a gain. Three interesting implications have been
suggested for international relations, both today and in the sixteenth century:
first, statesmen — like other people — may be disposed to pay a higher price and run
higher risks when they face losses than when they seek gains; second, and in
consequence, measures of deterrence are more likely to succeed against statesmen
trying to make gains than against those driven by the fear of losses. Third and
finally, conflicts tend to be more common — and to last longer — when both sides
believe that they are defending the status quo, because each believes it will suffer
losses unless it takes strong if not aggressive action.^
Prospect theory is particularly relevant in the case of Philip II because of the
geographically fragmented nature of his Monarchy, created by inheritance rather
than by conquest — or, in the aphorism of the time, Bella gerant alii. Tu, felix
Austria, nuhe (‘Others make war; you, happy Habsburgs, marry’). The marriage of
Maximilian of Habsburg with Mary of Burgundy had linked the lands of the
house of Austria in east central Europe with the distant Netherlands; while the
marriage of their son Philip with Juana of Trastamara eventually added equally
distant Castile (with its acquisitions in North Africa and the Americas) and
Aragon (with outposts in Sardinia, Sicily and Naples). By 1519 their son Charles
V had succeeded to all these scattered territories and aspirations, and added the
imperial dignity as well. Little, however, linked his vast dominions except the
dynasty: the emperor’s various possessions had no common language or currency,
no common institutions or laws, and no imperial defence plan or imperial
economic system. Although Philip II did not succeed his father as emperor, in
1580—83 he enforced his inherited claim to the crown of Portugal and its global
empire, thereby acquiring yet another major polity with its own separate system
of government. Fear of forfeiting any part of these exposed acquisitions led the
king to persevere in losing ventures. Moreover, thanks to the ‘domino theory’
which suggested that failure to defend or deter adequately in one area would
foment challenges elsewhere (pp. 89—90 above), he normally seemed prepared to
pay a high price to avoid even limited defeats.
As a Spanish diplomat observed in 1600, ‘I believe we are gradually becoming
the target at which the whole world wants to shoot its arrows’ — that is, the empire
on which the sun never set had become a target on which the sun never set.
The geographical dispersion of Philip’s dominions created difficulties in most
areas. For example Ambrosio Spmola, commander-in-chief of the Army of
Flanders, once pointed out that:
284 Conclusion: Agent and Structure
I have noticed something that will seem strange there (in Spain], which is the
fact that our [Dutch] enemies can easily wage war defensively, but Your
Majesty cannot. This is because of the great advantages they enjoy with the
rivers, so that they can travel with their armies in two days to places which the
army of Your Majesty can only reach in fifteen, and so have time to fortify
themselves in whatever place they choose before Your Majesty’s forces can
arrive.
Despite repeated attempts to remind them of this asymmetry (to say nothing of
the endless unsuccessful campaigns) the Spanish Habsburgs continued to insist
that the war in the Netherlands must be won at all costs — despite pressing
commitments elsewhere. In 1606 the duke of Lerma (Philip Ill’s principal
adviser) explained to an envoy from the Netherlands that Spain could not possibly
send any more money to finance the war against the Dutch because of the cost of
equipping two fleets to defend shipping in the Atlantic and the Caribbean, ‘to pay
the garrisons maintained by His Majesty in all parts’, to subsidize the emperor’s
war against the Turks, and to pay pensions and maintain troops in Italy. Yet
Lerma (and the king) still balked at negotiating with the Dutch, even though
they knew that the war could not be won.^ This dogged determination only
crumbled later that same year with the discovery that the treasury could neither
meet its obligations from available revenues nor raise any further loans. Just like
his father in 1574—75 and 1596—8, Philip III authorized serious negotiations to
find a settlement with the Dutch only when a decree of bankruptcy became
inevitable.^
The Habsburgs, however, really had no alternative to accepting the consequences
of the astonishing success of their dynastic policies. No one seriously
suggested that Charles V should renounce the imperial crown in 1519, because
the honour would then pass to his French rival; and the only serious discussion (in
1544) about sacrificing one of the empire’s outlying possessions in order to buy
peace for the rest merely revealed that the emperor’s various advisers could not
agree which part he should surrender (see pp. 88—9 above). In a perceptive letter
of 1565, Don Luis de Requesens observed:
It may be that there are old men in Castile who believe we were better off when
we held no more than that realm . . . and in truth if they could [they would]
return ... to that time when there was a king in Aragon and another in Naples
and a lord in Flanders and another in Burgundy and a duke in Milan, and would
likewise distribute what the king of France has now joined together. I confess
that this would be better for the kingdoms, although not for the authority and
greatness of kings; but supposing that the world, or at least Christendom, did
come to be reduced into only the power of His Majesty [Philip II] and of the
King of France, and what is ours could not be otherwise unless it belonged to
our enemy — it [would still] be necessary to conserve [what we have], which
requires having allies.^
If diplomacy was a ‘zero sum game’, Requesens concluded, it was far better to
command than to cajole or cringe.
In February 1580 the stern Jesuit, Pedro de Ribadeneira, made much the same
point when he warned the government of the dangers of annexing Portugal. It
would, he asserted, involve a war that ‘pitted Christians against Christians,
Catholics against Catholics’, raise higher the taxes in Castile which already meant
that ‘although the king is so powerful and so feared and respected, he is not as well
liked as he used to be’, and allow the king’s enemies abroad to find and exploit a
‘fifth column’ of discontented subjects within the peninsula; nevertheless,
Ribadeneira conceded, the only thing worse than fighting to secure Portugal
would be to let someone else acquire it! Even though uniting the peninsular
kingdoms under a single ruler would threaten the European balance of power (just
as Charles V’s election as Holy Roman Emperor had done in 1519), allowing the
Lusitanian inheritance to pass to someone else would point a dagger at the heart
of Spain itself^ The death of the childless Henry III of France in 1589 likewise
created an impossible dilemma for Philip: most observers recognized that intervention
to secure the succession of an acceptable candidate would involve a huge
outlay and, even if successful, would arouse animosity abroad; and yet not intervening
would, as in Portugal a decade earlier, allow the installation of a sworn
enemy, dedicated to challenging if not to diminishing Spanish power.
Philip never seems to have appreciated that his gains — however acquired —
might appear to his neighbours to threaten the international status quo. For
example, in 1570 the king’s representative read a statement to the Cortes of
Castile that sought to justify both the government’s achievements since the last
meeting of the assembly (four years before) and some new tax demands: having
noted Philip’s continual residence in the kingdom and his efforts to defend both
justice and the faith at home, the speech addressed four policy initiatives that had
cost a great deal of money — the expedition to expel French Protestant colonists
from Florida in 1565—66, sending the duke of Alba to the Netherlands in 1567
and defeating Orange’s invasion the following year, mobilizing an army against
the Morisco rebels of the Alpujarras, and finally sending troops into France to
defeat the Huguenots in 1569. To Philip - and no doubt to the deputies in the
Cortes - these four items all seemed similar; to his neighbours, however, they did
not. The brutal treatment of the French settlers in America (many were murdered
and the rest brought back to prison in Spain) caused a rift between Paris and
Madrid that lasted five years (until Philip released the survivors as part of the
celebrations for the victory of Lepanto); the arrival of Alba and the creation of a
powerful standing army in the Netherlands alarmed Elizabeth of England and
helped to alienate her from Spain; and the Spanish expeditionary force in France,
although it played a prominent part in the Huguenots’ defeat, unsettled the
ministers of Charles IX (they made peace with their former enemies in 1570).
These misperceptions resembled those of the United States and the USSR in
1961-62 preceding the Cuban Missile Crisis: President Kennedy believed the
deployment of Jupiter missiles in Turkey to be a prudent measure of defence
Conclusion: Agent and Structure 285
286 Conclusion: Agent and Structure
whereas Chairman Khrushchev saw it as a threat requiring drastic countermeasures,^
including sending missiles to Cuba.^
(;^''Ideology v in the sixteenth century as in the Cold War - reinforced the
propensity of statesmen to take risks in order to avoid losses. The Providential
vision of Philip and his ministers not only gave them a further reason to accept the
various gifts provided by Fortune but also reinforced their determination to
defend these ‘windfalls’ at all costs. As they saw it, they had all come from God
and so should not be rejected; they also feared that abandoned areas might fall into
the hands of heretics. Thus the crown consistently repudiated arguments that
both the Philippines and Ceylon should be abandoned, despite the fact that they
constituted a permanent drain on the Monarchy’s finances, because to do so would
deliver the native population to the Protestant Dutch. In Europe, a good part of
Philip’s resolve to depose Elizabeth, to fight a war without compromise in the
Netherlands, and to support the French Catholic League stemmed (as he so often
said) from his desire to advance the cause of the ‘true church’.^” It happened that
these goals coincided with Philip’s perception of Spain’s political interests, and
this congruence ‘between God’s service and mine’ no doubt played a part in his
numerous decisions to go to war. After the failure of that initial effort, however,
the congruence ceased. In each case, political considerations called for a rapid
compromise and a negotiated peace; only religious concerns required hostilities to
continue - but since for Philip that took precedence, Spain fought on. As the king
wrote in 1586 (with a rare touch of humour) when Sixtus V suggested that Spain
would have to attack England anyway in order to retaliate against Elizabeth’s
attacks, whether or not the Papacy helped him to finance it:
I reject the opinion they have {in Italy} that necessity compels me to undertake
this enterprise, because although over there they hold the law of vengeance to
be general and immutable, they are also so knowledgeable about political
expediency that they cannot fail to realize (for it is easily understood) that if I
gain command of the sea, and create a navy that will keep it clear, and secure
the Atlantic convoys and the Americas, I could avoid embarking on such a
difficult enterprise because I would be safe and sure of not being open to attack.
His Holiness really needs to understand that; and also that if I want to
undertake the venture, properly supported, it is with no other cause or aim
beyond the sadness I feel to see the persecution that afflicts the church there,
and the duty that all of us have to serve Our Lord.^^
Such convictions lay at the root of the king’s remarkable confidence that, whenever
his plans ran into difficulty, God would ‘return to support His cause’ and
produce the miracle that would enable him to overcome all obstacles because it
was all done for ‘the duty that all of us have to serve Our Lord’.
Philip saw himself, if not as King David, then certainly as Moses: one of the few
men capable of hearing, understanding and executing God’s will. Like Moses, he
expected God to provide a miracle when the goals he had set seemed unattainable
Conclusion: Agent and Structure 287
by purely human means: he expected the Red Sea to part before him (and, after the
victory of Lepanto, at least one of his ministers thought it had done so: see p. loi
above); above all he felt confident that he could see a pillar of cloud by day and of
fire by night guiding him, and those over whom he ruled, to the Promised Land.
The danger with this view lay in the fact that ‘In the end, we cannot do everything
with nothing’, as the duke of Parma complained to his master in 1586, ‘and one
day God will grow tired of working miracles for»us’. But Philip seldom realized
when the gaps between ends and means had become too large to be bridged by
‘ordinary’ miracles. Even after the events of 1588 seemed to indicate that (again
in Parma’s words) ‘God is sworne Englishe’, the king continued to believe that,
since he fought for God’s cause, he should tolerate no compromise, allow no
deviation and eschew all fall-back strategies.
Warfare therefore came to be seen as the ‘normal’ state of the Monarchy. As
Philip IV later put it: ‘With as many kingdoms and lordships as have been linked
to this crown it is impossible to be without war in some area, either to defend
what we have acquired or to divert our enemies’, and from his accession in 1621
until his death in 1665 — as between 1577 and 1607 — Spain’s forces fought
continuously on at least one front. Not surprisingly, the continuous strain of war
produced a fatalism in those who made policy. When, for example, in 1619 Don
Balthasar de Zuniga (Philip Ill’s principal adviser on foreign policy) considered
whether Spain should go to war with the Dutch again when the Twelve Year
Truce ran out, he realized that he would make the wrong choice whatever he did:
Whether we do it [break the Truce} or do not do it, we can be sure that we shall
find ourselves in a bad situation because, when matters reach a certain stage,
every decision taken will be for the worst, not through lack of good advice, but
because the situation is so desperate that it is not capable of remedy; and
whatever policy is selected discredits whoever chose it.
Six years later, Zuniga’s nephew and successor as Philip IV’s chief minister, the
count-duke of Olivares, rebuked with equal fatalism a colleague who suggested
that the ship of state was sinking:
I do not consider a constant and despairing recitation of the state of affairs to
be a useful exercise, because it cannot be concealed from those who know it at
first hand. To make them despair of the remedy can only weaken their resolution
... I know the situation, I lament it, and it grieves me, but I will allow no
impossibility to weaken my zeal or diminish my concern. For as the minister
with paramount obligations it is for me to die unprotesting, chained to my oar,
until not a single fragment is left in my hands.
Fighting a major war in the sixteenth century, as today, demanded efforts of
enormous magnitude and left few reserves of energy or insight to deal with the
even more complex problems of how to achieve a satisfactory final outcome:
288 Conclusion: Agent and Structure
indeed, the longer the conflict continued, the more likely it became that the
minutiae of fighting the war would divert statesmen from planning how to win
the peace. Olivares, like Philip II before him, therefore tended to fix his attention
on tactical and logistical issues, on coordinating complicated military and naval
operations, rather than on ensuring that those issues and operations would bring
peace. He regularly attempted to micromanage strategy, disconcerting and discouraging
his subordinates while at the same time neglecting ‘the big picture’.
Some saw such personal failings as paramount in Spain’s failure. Philip
II appeared repeatedly in the dreams of the teenage Madrid clairvoyant Lucrecia
de Leon between 1587 and 1590. The images she later reported were not
flattering: crowds jeered at the king because he had impoverished them; his
strength failed and his subjects longed for a new ruler to lead them; most hurtful
of all, a placard by the chair where he slumbered announced ‘He did not do nearly
enough for the faith’. In one dream, even his daughter Isabella belittled his
achievements:
Look, Your Majesty, Spain is lost . . . Your Majesty is aware of the fame my
grandfather. Emperor Charles V, left behind. The name of the Catholic
Monarch {Ferdinand} also lives, even though he has been dead many years,
and the names and glories of the holy kings of France are known everywhere. As
for you, it is only said that you have impoverished your kingdom.
In another of Lucrecia’s dreams Philip appeared as a new Roderick, the last
Visigoth king whose licentious life was popularly believed to have caused the loss
of Spain to the Moors in 711 AD. Don Juan de Silva, a discontented courtier, also
blamed Philip for everything: in 1589 he confided to a friend that ‘a man of leisure
and insight told me that if one considers in detail the actions of His Majesty since
he began to reign . . . one could not ascribe any gain by our enemies to {their}
“luck”, nor attribute any of our own successes to diligence - a melancholy
thought’. Ten years later, just after the king’s death, the Jesuit Juan de Mariana
penned the most damning personal indictment of all while writing about the
Armada’s failure in his treatise Of kings and kingship'.
Great loss was suffered on the coasts of England: we sustained that blow, that
ignominy, which many years will not be able to efface. That was the retribution
exacted for grave delinquencies in our nation and, unless memory fails, it was
the vile lusts of a certain prince which enraged the Divinity. This prince had
forgotten the sacred personage he was, and the advanced age and even senility
he had reached; and the rumour spread abroad that he had dissipated himself
beyond reason in licentiousness.^^
The wide range of explanations offered for Philip IPs failure - from those of
Padilla, Sessa and Spmola on the one hand to Lucrecia, Silva and Mariana on the
other — raises in an acute form one of the principal historiographical debates of our
289
time: the role of agent versus structure in historical causation. Some recent
scholars have ascribed everything to structural factors. According to Henry
Kamen,
Philip was never at any time in adequate control of events, or of his kingdoms,
or even of his own destiny. It follows that he cannot be held responsible for
more than a small part of what eventually transpired during his reign . . . He
was ‘imprisoned within a destiny in which he himself had little hand’. He could
do little more than play the dice available to him.
This is an extreme view. As John Lewis Gaddis has pointed out, ‘History is
always the product of determined and contingent events: it is up to historians to
find the proper balance between them’.But where does that ‘proper balance’ lie
in Philip’s case?
Studies of other rulers of large states under stress reveal many cases in which the
role of the agent equals - and sometimes perhaps exceeds - that of the structures.
The experience of the Mogul emperor Akbar (1556-1605), for example, suggests
that a dramatic increase in data does not inevitably cause ‘information overload’.
Akbar created an elaborate information-gathering system, with imperial agents
collecting and processing the data gathered by the ‘newswriters’ placed in every
sub-district throughout the empire; the emperor and his provincial governors also
maintained sets of secret agents and writers, who acted as a ‘control’ on the rest;
and a dense network of runners and camel-borne messengers transported a mass of
official documents, orders and reports across the country under the control of the
postmasters. An eminent historian has characterized the Mogul state as an ‘exercise
in surveillance’; but, although Akbar was no less absolute than his contemporary
Philip, the Mogul emperor did not insist on seeing all the data for himself or
on using it to micromanage policy.
Nevertheless, the delays in communication caused by distance, coupled with
the rapid increase in the amount of available data, produced significant confusion
in most sixteenth-century capitals. English ministers, for example, complained
about the inefficiency of their government in terms that would have won immediate
recognition from their Spanish counterparts. Thus in 1596, as Elizabeth
vacillated over whether or not to send more troops to fight in France, one of
her courtiers expressed sentiments remarkably similar to those of Don Martin de
Padilla a few months earlier (p. 282 above): ‘We had never in this court so busy
a time . . . We are to provide for the saving of Ireland, the contenting of France,
the winning of the Low Countries to such conditions as they are yet far from, and
the discovering and preventing of designs which are now more and greater than
ever.’ Somewhat later, another of the queen’s ministers lamented — as Philip’s
servants had done (pp. 65-6 above) - that ‘It hath been always our custom to seek
still to put off the time and never to endeavour the preventing of our mischiefs till
they be fallen upon us, which maketh that afterwards they are not either at all to
be remedied, or at least not without great difficulty’.
Conclusion: Agent and Structure
290
Of course rulers of large states could experience high stress even in peacetime.
Roman emperors in the first and second century ad, whether at home in their
palaces or on progress through the provinces, appear to have been workaholics,
endlessly taking decisions as they tried to maintain order and justice. Eighteenthcentury
Chinese emperors rose before dawn and sometimes forced their councillors
and secretaries to work more than twenty-four hours at a stretch in order to keep
on top of their paperwork.^” The administrative habits of the emperor Yung-cheng
(1723-35) offer an uncanny parallel to those of Philip II: on the one hand, Yungcheng
tried to avoid audiences and to transact all government in writing; on the
other, he developed two systems of imperial communication, one for routine
matters handled by the ‘outer court’ (the permanent bureaucracy) and the other
for more sensitive issues contained in secret letters sent directly to the emperor
and handled by him with a select group of confidential advisers. Some matters,
indeed, he dealt with alone in stream-of-consciousness rescripts written in his
distinctive imperial vermilion ink - ‘informal, rambling, and spontaneous’, commenting
on a sudden fall of snow in the capital (‘{It is} the benevolence of
heaven . . . Why has such happiness come to me?’), chiding an official for leaving
too many unused extra folds at the end of his report, and concluding, ‘I have
written these [thoughts} as they came to me to let you know’. According to a
fascinating recent study, ‘behind Yung-cheng’s earnest and frenzied attention to
governing there flourished an imperial preference for handling things independently
and sometimes haphazardly or even capriciously’.^^
At least Yung-cheng, although disorganized, knew how to delegate. Other
leaders, especially at times of crisis, did not. Jefferson Davis, President of the
Confederate States of America between 1861 and 1865, who was said to have ‘ink
instead of blood in his veins’, proved another inveterate meddler. He acted as his
own secretary of war and general-in-chief, issuing a stream of narrow instructions
that hampered his generals’ freedom of action and even giving orders to subordinates
directly instead of through their commanding generals; he spent an inordinate
amount of time justifying his decisions whenever they ran into criticism or
failure; and he insisted on compartmentalizing the entire structure of command so
that he retained control of all decisions. In the words of one of his officials, ‘The
radical vice of Mr Davis’s whole military system is the separate departmental
organization, each reporting only to him’. Some have ascribed the Confederates’
defeat in large part to Davis’s personal shortcomings.^^
The best parallel for assessing the relative roles of agent and structure in the
failure of Grand Strategies is offered by Nazi Germany because, to quote John
Lewis Gaddis again, ‘It is hardly possible to imagine Nazi Germany or the world
war that it caused without Hitler’.Soon after gaining power in 1933 Adolf
Hitler deliberately created a labyrinthine system of competing structures in the
Nazi state in order to protect his own central role and oblige everyone to turn to
him for decisions. In 1938 he extended the system to the armed forces by
appointing himself minister of war and gathering around him a special military
bureau which mediated his orders to the various service chiefs, but he once again
Conclusion: Agent and Structure 291
made sure that only he had the full picture. The following year the new operational
advisory staff accompanied the Fiihrer eastwards on a train (the ‘Fiihrer
special’) to follow the progress of the war in Poland; in 1940, during the conquest
of western Europe, they moved to a converted farm in the Eifel; and after 1941
(following the invasion of Russia) they took over a fortified complex, the ‘Wolf’s
Lair, in a forest in East Prussia. In the memorable phrase of Hitler’s chief of
operations staff, Alfred Jodi, ‘The Fiihrer’s headquarters was a cross between a
cloister and a concentration camp’, and its various remote locations naturally -
and intentionally - isolated the supreme commander and his staff from the
immediacy of events. According to Jodi’s deputy, Walter Warlimont: ‘Hitler was,
so to speak, in a little corner sheltered from the blast; neither he nor his immediate
entourage got any direct information either of the severity of the struggle on the
main front on the one hand or of the blazing effects of the air war on the German
cities on the other’.
This isolation produced two important consequences. First, in an apparent
attempt to counteract his seclusion. Hitler often allowed direct access to a wide
range of people. According to Jodi, speaking soon after the war:
There were endless ways through which the Fiihrer was informed about
military matters. Every individual and every office could hand in reports
direct to the adjutant’s department. The photographer sent out by the Fiihrer
to take pictures at the front found it expedient to use this opportunity to report
to the Fiihrer on military matters also. When I objected to this, the Fiihrer
answered, ‘I do not care from whom I hear the truth; the main thing is that I
hear it.’^^
This was not quite true. Admittedly Hitler, like Philip II, accepted advice from
all quarters while he was making up his mind on an issue; but thereafter access to
Supreme Headquarters was carefully controlled and those who entered soon
realized that news and views that criticized the Fiihrer’s previous decisions were
not welcome. In September 1942 Jodi discovered this for himself Hitler sent him
east to goad forward the commanders in the Caucasus who appeared to have
become bogged down. He returned with an account of the difficulties he had
witnessed — snow-covered passes and so on — which fully explained the lack of
progress.
I didn’t send you, Jodi [Hitler hissed}, to hear you report on all the difficulties.
You were supposed to represent my view. That was your job. Instead you come
back completely under the influence of the front-line commanders. You are
nothing but their megaphone. I didn’t need to send you there for that.
Jodi s hackles rose and he argued back; two days later, he heard that he would be
replaced. Stunned by this rebuke from his hero, Jodi immediately recognized his
error: One should never . . . try to point out to a dictator where he has gone
Conclusion: Agent and Structure
292 Conclusion: Agent and Structure
wrong, since this will shake his self-confidence, the main pillar upon which his
personality and his actions are based.
Theatre commanders proved no more successful in changing Hitler’s mind:
when summoned to make a presentation or report at headquarters, none seemed
able to resist the overpowering influence of the Fiihrer’s presence. Thus Heinz
Guderian — son of a Prussian general, pioneer of armoured warfare, and a conspicuously
successful commander in Poland, France and Russia — arrived at the Fiihrer’s
headquarters in August 1941 intent on persuading Hitler to sanction a quick
thrust on Moscow, instead of transferring his armoured forces southwards. In the
course of a morning with Hitler, however, Guderian changed his tune Too per
cent’, later offering the excuse that ‘Having become convinced by his interview
that the Fiihrer was firmly resolved to execute the drive to the south, it was his
duty to make the impossible possible in order to put these ideas into effect’.^^
The problem, as another of Hitler’s generals shrewdly put it, lay in the fact that
‘The Fiihrer was interested in the very big issues, and also in the tiniest details.
Anything in between did not interest him. What he overlooked was that most
decisions fall into this intermediate category.’ Within that vast terrain. Hitler’s
intervention tended to be erratic and unpredictable. ‘In my view,’ Chief of Staff
Franz Haider wrote in 1941, ‘the situation resulting from the Fiihrer’s interference
is intolerable for the Army. These individual instructions by the Fiihrer
produce a situation of order, counter-order and disorder, and no one can be held
responsible but he himself personally.Hitler nevertheless remained incorrigible.
According to Jodi, in January 1945 the military signals system attached
to the Fiihrer’s headquarters in Berlin handled 120,000 phone calls, 33,000
teleprinter messages and 1,200 radio messages each and every day. It seems
unlikely that any command centre at that time — let alone any supreme commander
— could process effectively such a volume of traffic in order to implement
a coherent strategy. Only someone with total confidence in their mission, like
Hitler, would even try.^^
Writing shortly after Philip II’s death. Sir Walter Raleigh attributed the king’s
failure to achieve his goals to a similar overweening confidence. With reference to
the Armada, Raleigh suggested that: ‘To invade by sea upon a perilous coast,
being neither in possession of any port, nor succoured by any party, may better fit
a prince presuming on his fortune than enriched with understanding.’ Philip did
not entirely disagree: he felt sure that, thanks to his special relationship with God,
he ‘understood matters differently’ from other people and therefore felt able to
discount ‘the difficulties and problems that spring up’.^° It is not hard to see
why. Despite all the structural problems that beset his Monarchy — distance
and fragmentation; information overload; ‘imperial overstretch’ (to use Paul
Kennedy’s useful term again) — the king came remarkably close to achieving his
goals. With but a minimal rewrite of history (or, in Philip’s terms, with only
a minor miracle) the outcome at several key junctures could have been very
different. Had the king returned to the Netherlands at any point between 1562
293
(when opposition to the ‘New bishoprics’ scheme became subversive) and 1568
(when the unpopularity of Alba’s regime made a new rebellion highly likely), the
Low Countries’ Wars might have been entirely avoided; had Alba conceded
magnanimous terms to the defenders of Haarlem when they surrendered ‘at
discretion’ in 1573 (or had an earlier attempt on Orange’s life succeeded) other
rebellious towns might also have sought terms. The drain on Philip’s resources
would then have ceased, enabling him to intervene more effectively elsewhere.
Likewise, had any of the plots against Elizabeth’s life in the 1570s and 1580s
succeeded - whether or not they involved Spain - Mary Stuart would almost
certainly have become the next queen of England and drawn closer to Spain in
order to secure Philip’s support against her Protestant subjects. Alternatively, if
the king had adopted a strategy (any strategy) for the conquest of England that
did not require the Armada to join with Parma’s army in advance; had Medina
Sidonia not received at Corunna Philip’s letter forbidding him to wait in the
Channel until news arrived that Parma was ready; or had the Armada been
commanded by a fighting admiral — whether Santa Cruz or, after his death,
Recalde — it might have secured at least the temporary command of the sea
required for Parma’s crossing to the relatively undefended coast of Kent. As it was,
in August 1588 Philip’s remarkable — and remarkably coordinated — military,
naval, diplomatic and economic efforts against England almost succeeded: Parma
managed to embark his army within 48 hours, and Medina Sidonia led his fleet
(more or less intact) to Calais, and kept it there for 36 hours. And, finally, had
either Sebastian of Portugal or Henry III of France not met a violent death while
still young and childless, Philip could have continued to profit from their incompetence
without so obviously threatening the European balance of power.
‘Counterfactual’ calculations have, of course, been scorned by many historians
— especially by those who believe that major events must stem from major causes.
Two centuries ago, however, Samuel Johnson eloquently demolished these
doubts:
It seems to be almost the universal error of historians to suppose it politically,
as it is physically true, that every effort has a proportionate cause. In the
inanimate action of matter upon matter, the motion produced can be but equal
to the force of the moving power; but the operations of life, whether private or
publick, admit no such laws. The caprices of voluntary agents laugh at calculation.
It is not always that there is a strong reason for a great event. Obstinacy
and flexibility, malignity and kindness, give place alternately to each other, and
the reason of these vicissitudes, however important may be the consequences,
often escapes the mind in which the change is made.^^
Nevertheless the long-term consequences of these ‘vicissitudes’ must not be
exaggerated. We must also consider ‘second-order counterfactuals’ — that
although some things might have happened differently, the long-term result
might have remained unchanged. In Philip II’s case, even success in the Netherlands
and against England could not have altered his unpromising genetic legacy.
Conclusion: Agent and Structure
The fatal inheritance
Aragon Castille Austria Burgundy
Ferdinand = Isabella Maximilian I = Mary
England I Portugal I I
Henry VIII = Catherine Manuel = Maria Juana = Philip
I-------------
John III = Catherine
I---
John = Juana
Sebastian
Mary (2) = Philip II* Maria (i) = Philip II* = Anna (4)
Don Carlos Philip III
Table 7 Both the Portuguese and the Spanish royal families earnestly sought to unite the entire Iberian
peninsula under one sceptre; and to that end, generation after generation, they intermarried. Although this
inter-breeding eventually produced the desired effect - in 1580 Philip of Spain succeeded to the Portuguese
throne — it involved a hidden cost: the gene pool of the dynasty became dangerously reduced. Don Carlos, for
example, Philip II’s unstable son, could count only four — instead of eight — great-grandparents.
Isabella = Charles V Ferdinand = Anne
Maria = Maximilian II
After all, the Portuguese inheritance only came to Spain thanks to repeated
intermarriage of the two ruling dynasties (see Table 7). Don Carlos, Philip’s
mentally unstable eldest son who (fortunately for the Monarchy) predeceased his
father, descended from several generations of in-breeding between the two families;
likewise Philip Ill’s father and mother were already uncle and niece before
they married, and his mother’s parents were also cousins. Sooner or later, such
endogamy would produce a ruler totally incapable of governing the Monarchy (as
in the event happened with Carlos II in the late seventeenth century), and in a
hereditary state the deleterious consequences could not be avoided.
No hegemony, of course, lasts for ever. The Mogul empire expanded rapidly
under Akbar and his successors, but began to disintegrate a century later; the
Ch’ing empire ruled by Yung-cheng collapsed less than two centuries later in
revolution, followed by decades of fragmentation under warlords and foreign
occupation. The odds are stacked heavily against creating and — even more —
against conserving hereditary empires. In either case, however, ascribing everything
to structures and nothing to agents — to write a history without either
heroes or villains — seems perverse. An elaborate simile used in one of the
funeral sermons preached after Philip’s death in 1598 takes us to the heart of the
matter:
Conclusion: Agent and Structure 295
The life of a king resembles that of a hand-loom weaver . . . You may think that
the weaver’s life is easy, because he works at home, sheltered, close to his loom;
but in reality the task is very hard. He labours with his arms, but see his feet
working the pedals while his eyes remain glued to the cloth lest it become
tangled. His attention is divided among the many threads, some going here
and others there, keeping his eye open lest any break so it can immediately be
tied . . . Such is the life of a king: writing with his hands, travelling with his
feet, his heart attached to threads - one to Flanders, another to Italy, another to
Africa, another to Peru, another to Mexico, another to the English Catholics,
another to preserving peace among Christian princes, another to the problems
of the Holy Roman Empire. So much attention required by the various states
and threats! If the thread to the Indies should break, the king must hurry to tie
it, and the same if the thread to Flanders should break.
A king’s life, the preacher concluded, involved endless activity, constant
strain, and permanent uncertainty about when or where the next crisis would
arise. /
Even if we accept this sympathetic picture of Philip’s ceaseless toil at the loom
of state, it is legitimate to wonder why he did not produce more cloth. Admittedly
his unwieldy inheritance, distance, and the rising number of decisions
required of him created deep structural problems, but other statesmen have
proved better at delegation, and have not always placed ideological commitment
above rational calculation. Surely he could have exploited the serious weaknesses
that beset most of Spain’s enemies throughout the later sixteenth century to better
advantage: Germany divided uneasily between Protestant and Catholic; England
ruled by a woman who, although an adroit politician, lacked a clear successor and
needed to accommodate a large religious minority; above all, Erance — his father’s
nemesis — seriously weakened by repeated religious wars. Yet despite these
uniquely favourable international circumstances Philip failed both to preserve
what he had inherited and to achieve the dynastic and confessional goals that he
had set. Even if it is a law (as Elorence Nightingale feared) ‘that all nations shall
fall after a certain number of years’, the decline of Philip’s global Monarchy
so soon after its creation by the union of crowns in 1580 must be ascribed to
the limitations of the royal weaver rather than to the structure of his loom, the
configuration of his cloth, or the weakness of its component threads. Above all, his
invincible confidence that God would provide, leading him to ‘play down the
difficulties and problems that spring up’, gave rise to a potentially dangerous form
of messianic imperialism which became the basis of Grand Strategy. Perhaps it
was inevitable. As has been written of Hitler and Stalin, who also adopted an
‘emotionally based ideological romanticism’.
There seems to have been something about authoritarians that caused them to
lose touch with reality. Being a communist provided no greater safeguard
296
against tilting at windmills than being a fascist. The explanation is not difficult
to discern: autocratic systems reinforce, while discouraging attempts to puncture,
whatever quixotic illusions may exist at the top.^'^
The authoritarian character of Philip II, although far less sinister than that of the
later dictators, constituted both the greatest strength and the greatest weakness of
his Monarchy.
Conclusion: Agent and Structure
Notes
Abbreviations Used in the Notes
AA
ACA
AGI
AGNM
AGPM
AGRB
AGS
AHN
Alava
AMAE
AMC
APO
ARA
ASF MP
Archivo de la Casa de los Duques de Alba, Madrid, Manuscript
Collection (with caja and folio)
Archivo de la Corona de Aragon, Barcelona
CA Consejo de Aragon
Archivo General de Indias, Seville
Archivo General de la Nacion, Mexico
CRD Cedulas reales duplicadas
Archivo General del Palacio Real, Madrid
Archives Generales du Royaume/Algemeen Rijksarchief, Brussels
Audience Papiers d’etat et d’Audience
CC Chambre des Comptes
MD Manuscrits Divers
SEG Secrdairerie d’t.tat et de Guerre
Archivo General de Simancas
CJH Consejos y Juntas de Hacienda
CMC Contadurta Mayor de Cuentas (with epoca and legajo)
CS Contadurta del Sueldo (with epoca and legajo)
Estado Negociacion de Estado
Estado K Estado Erancia
GA Guerra Antigua
SP Secretartas Provinciates
Archivo Historico Nacional, Madrid
OM 6rdenes Militares
P. and J. Rodriguez, Don Frances de Alava y Beamonte. Correspondencia
inedita de Felipe II con su embajador en Parts (1^64—lyjo) (San
Sebastian, 1991)
Archive du Ministere des Affaires Etrangeres, Paris
MDFD Memoires et documents: Ponds divers, Espagne
Archivo de la Casa de los Duques de Medina Celi, Seville, Manuscript
Collection
J. H. de Cunha Rivara, Archivo Portuguez-Oriental (6 vols, Nova Goa,
1857-76)
Algemene Rijksarchief, The Hague
Archivio di Stato, Florence, Mediceo del Principato
297
298 Abbreviations used in the notes
ASG AS
ASL
ASMa AG
ASMi
ASMo CD
ASN CF
ASP CF
ASV
ASVe Spagna
BAV UL
BCR
BL
BMB
BMO
BNL
BNM
BNP
Bod.
Bouza
BPM
BPU Favre
BRB
BSLE
BZ
Cabrera
CCG
CDCV
CGT
Co.Do.In.
CSPF
CSPScot
Archivio di State, Genoa, Archivio segreto
Archivio di State, Lucca, Archivio diplomatico
Archivio di State, Mantua, Archivio Gonzaga
Archivio di State, Milan, Cancellaria spagnuola
Archivio di State, Modena, Cancellaria ducale, sezione estera: ambasciatori
Spagna
Archivio di State, Naples, Sezione diplomatica-politica Carte
Farnesiane
Archivio di State, Parma, Carteggio Farnesiano
Archivio Segreto Vaticano
LP Lettere principi
NS Nunziatura Spagna
Archivio di State, Venice, Senate: dispacci Spagna
Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Urbinates Latini
Biblioteca Casanatense, Rome
British Library, London, Department of Western Manuscripts
Addl Additional Manuscripts
Cott. Cotton Manuscripts
Eg. Egerton Manuscripts
Harl. Harleian Manuscripts
Lans. Lansdowne Manuscripts
Sloane Sloane Manuscripts
Bibliotheque Municipale, Besangon, Manuscript Department
J. Calvar Gross, J. I. Gonzalez-Aller Hierro, M. de Duehas Fontan and
M. del C. Merida Valverde, Ea batalla del Mar Oceano (3 vols,
Madrid, 1988—93)
Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon
Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid, Manuscript Section
Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris, Manuscript Department
Ms. esp. Manuscrit espagnol
Bodleian Library, Oxford, Department of Western Manuscripts
Pawl. Rawlinson Manuscripts
F. J. Bouza Alvarez, Cartas de Felipe II a sus hijas (Madrid, 1988)
Biblioteca del Palacio Real, Madrid, Manuscript Collection
Bibliotheque Publique et Universitaire, Geneva, Collection
Manuscrite Edouard Favre
Bibliotheque Royale, Brussels, Manuscript Section
Biblioteca del Real Monasterio de San Lorenzo de El Escorial,
Manuscripts
Biblioteca de Zabalburu, Madrid, Manuscripts (with caja and folio
number)
L. Cabrera de Cordoba, Historia de Felipe II, rey de Espana (4 vols,
Madrid, 1876 edn; vols I—II originally published in 1619)
E. Poullet and C. Piot, Correspondance du Cardinal de Granvelle iy6yiy86
(12 vols, Brussels, 1877—96)
M. Fernandez Alvarez, Corpus Documental Carlos V (5 vols, Salamanca,
1974-81)
L. P. Gachard, Correspondance de Guillaume le Taciturne (6 vols,
Brussels, 1849-57)
Coleccion de documentos ineditos para la historia de Espana (112 vols,
Madrid, 1842-95)
Calendar of state papers of the Reign of Elizabeth, Foreign series
Calendar of state papers relating to Scotland and Mary Queen of Scots
eSPSp.
espv Documentos . . . El
Escorial
Dona
Encinas
Epistolario
ED
Fourquevaux
GCP
GPGP
Groen van Prinsterer,
Archives
HHStA
Herrera Oria
HMC Bath
HMC Downshire
HMC Rutland
HMC Salisbury
Hunt HA
IVdeDJ
KB
KML M5P
Laubespine
Laughton
Longlee
Maura
Mondoucet
NMM
M. A. S. Hume, Calendar of letters and state papers relating to English
affairs preserved in, or originally belonging to, the archives of Simancas:
Elizabeth (4 vols, London, 1892-99)
H. F. Brown, Calendar of state papers. . . Venice, VIII (London, 1894)
J. Zarco Cuevas, G. de Andres and others, Documentos para la historia
del monasterio de San Lorenzo El Real de El Escorial (8 vols, Madrid,
1917-62)
M. Brunetti and E. Vitale, La corrispondenza da Madrid dell’ ambasciatore
Leonardo Dona (lyyo—iy/^) (2 vols, Venice—Rome, 1963)
Cedulario Indiano recopilado por Diego de Encinas (1596: ed. A. Garcia
Gallo, 4 vols, Madrid, 1945—46)
Duke of Berwick y Alba, Epistolario del III duque de Alba (3 vols,
Madrid, 1952)
C. Fernandez Duro, La Armada Invencible (2 vols, Madrid, 1888)
C. Douais, Depeches de M. de Fourquevaux, ambassadeur du roi Charles IX
en Espagne, iy6y—j2 (3 vols, Paris, 1896—1904)
L. P. Gachard, Correspondance de Philippe II sur les affaires des Pays-Bas
(5 vols, Brussels 1848-79)
A. Gonzalez Palencia, Gonzalo Perez, secretario de Felipe II (2 vols,
Madrid, 1946)
G. Groen van Prinsterer, Archives ou correspondance inedite de la maison
d’Orange-Nassau (ist series, 8 vols and supplement, Leiden 1835—
47; 2nd series, I, Utrecht, 1857)
Haus-, Hof- und Staatsarchiv, Vienna
E. Herrera Oria, La Armada Invencible. Documentos procedentes del Archive
General deSimancas (Valladolid, 1929: Archivo Historico Espanol, II)
Historical Manuscripts Commission Calendar of the manuscripts of the
Most Honourable the Marquess of Bath, V (London, 1980)
Historical Manuscripts Commission Calendar of the manuscripts of the
Most Honourable the Marquess of Downshire, III (London, 1938)
Historical Manuscripts Commission Twelfth Report (London, 1888),
appendix, part IV, ‘Manuscripts of His Grace the duke of
Rutland’
Historical Manuscripts Commission Calendar of the manuscripts of the
Most Honourable the Marquess of Salisbury, III (London, 1889)
Huntington Library, San Marino, California, Hastings Manuscripts
Instituto de Valencia de Don Juan, Madrid, Manuscript Collection
(with envto and folio number)
Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague, Manuscript Section
Karpeles Manuscript Library, Santa Barbara, Medina Sidonia Papers
CC Casa de la Contratacion
CR Cartas de reyes
L. Paris, Negociations, lettres et pieces diverses relatives au regne de Francis
II, tirees du portefeuille de Sebastien de L’aubespine (Paris, 1841)
J. K. Laughton, State Papers concerning the defeat of the Spanish Armada
(2 vols, London, 1895-1900)
A. Mousset, Depeches diplomatiques de M. de Longlee, resident de France en
Espagne, lySz—^o (Paris, 1912)
G. Maura Gamazo, duke of Maura, El designio de Felipe II y el episodic de
la Armada Invencible (Madrid, 1957)
L. Didier, Lettres et negociations de Claude de Mondoucet, resident de France
aux Pays-Bas (iyji—iy/4) (2 vols, Paris, 1891—92)
National Maritime Museum, Greenwich
Abbreviations Used in The Notes 299
300 Notes to pp. xv—xix
NS
Nueva Co. Do. In.
OOLA KB
OS
PEG
PRO
RAH
RAZ
Reivindkacion
RSG
Riba
Serrano
Sigiienza
UB Leiden HS Pap.
New Style (dates according to the Gregorian calendar)
Nueva Coleccion de documentos ineditos para la historia de Espana (5 vols,
Madrid 1892—4)
Oberosterreichisches Landesarchiv, Linz, Khevenhuller Briefbiicher
Old Style (dates according to the Julian Calendar)
C. W eiss, Papiers d’Etat du Cardinal de Granvelle (9 vols, Paris, 1841—52)
Public Record Office, London
AO Audit Office
E Exchequer
PRO Transcripts from other archives
SP State Papers
WO War Office
Real Academia de la Historia, Madrid, Manuscript Collection
Rijksarchief Zeeland, Middelburg
F. Perez Minguez, Reivindkacion historka del siglo XVI (Madrid, 1928)
N. Japikse, Resolutieen der Staten-Generaal van i^j6 tot i6og (14 vols.
The Hague, 1917-70)
C. Riba Garcia, Correspondencia privada de Felipe II con su secretario Mateo
Vazquez (Madrid, 1959)
L. Serrano, Correspondencia diplomdtica entre Espana y la Santa Seek
durante el pontifkado de San Pio V (4 vols, Madrid, 1914)
Jose de Sigiienza, La fundacion del Monasterio de El Escorial (1605:
Madrid, 1988)
Universiteitsbibliotheek, Leiden, Manuscript Collection
Note: full titles of all works cited will be found in the bibliography, at pp. 407-33 below.
Preface
1. Sorensen, Decision-making in the White
House, xi, xiii (from Kennedy’s
preface).
2. Gaddis, We notv know, Lebow and
Stein, We all lost the Cold War.
3. For an important example of how such
a study should be undertaken, see
Hess, The forgotten frontier.
4. See von Ranke, Sdmmtlkhe Werke,
XXXIV, 144—50 (an appendix to his
‘History of the Italian and German
peoples, 1494-1535’, originally published
in 1824. I thank Paul
Bushkovitch for bringing this passage
to my attention.) For the location
and nature of the sources on which
this study rests, see pp. 397—402
below.
5. Fortescue, Correspondence of King George
the Third, IV, 350-1: George III to
Lord North, ii June 1779. Philip II
frequently made the same calculation,
and also justified his rejection of ‘the
scale of a tradesman’ by reference to
‘Divine Providence’ (see pp. 99—107
above). On the need to consider each
statesman’s interaction and convergence
with society, see Jarausch, The
enigmatic chancellor, ix.
6. Braudel, The Mediterranean, 21; for the
moment in 1944 at which Braudel,
then a prisoner-of-war in Germany,
suddenly hit upon the idea of three
‘speeds’, see Braudel, ‘Braudel antes de
Braudel’, 94. For a recent forthright
statement that all major events must
have major long-term causes see
Israel, The Dutch Republic. Its rise, greatness
and fall, 169.
7. See the important insights of
Beyerchen, ‘Clausewitz’; Roth, ‘Is history
a process?’; and Beaumont, War,
chaos and history, chaps 1—2.
8. Memorien . . . Hooft, I, 182.
Notes to pp. 1—4 301
Introduction: Did Philip II Have a
Grand Strategy?
1. Braudel, The Mediterranean, II, 1236;
Koenigsberger, Politicians and virtuosi,
80, 82 (from his splendid essay, ‘The
statecraft of Philip IF, first published
in 1971); Kennedy, Rise and fall, 35-
6.
2. Definitions from Wheeler, ‘Methodological
limits’, 10; Kennedy, Grand
strategies in war and peace, 2—3 (Liddell
Hart); Cowley and Parker, The reader’s
companion, 448 (Luttwak). Mies van de
Rohe quoted in Hopf, Peripheral
visions, 240—1.
3. For various interpretations of the
changing Grand Strategies employed
by Roman emperors, see Ferrill,
‘Grand Strategy’, Luttwak, Grand
Strategy, and Wheeler, ‘Methodological
limits’.
4. Kennedy, Rise and fall, 36. Fernandez
Alvarez, Felipe II, 775-87, agreed.
Lutz, Christianitas Afflicta, 208—9;
Elliott, ‘Foreign policy and domestic
crisis’, made much the same point for
the preceding and subsequent periods.
Wheeler, ‘Methodological limits’, 23,
218-19 227-32, brilliantly demonstrates
that although the Romans,
like Philip II, ‘lacked a coherent
strategy in the sense of a great “master
plan” for empire, this does not exclude
strategy in general for how to defend
it’ (229-30).
5. Quotations from BL Eg. 592/38-48V,
‘Discurso astronomico’ (anonymous),
at fo. 44 (in fact only five ‘hours’ separate
Madrid and Cuzco, but the idea of
using time-zones to measure size
seems strikingly modern); and Salazar,
Polttka espanola, 24. According to
Gonzalez Davila, Teatro, i, the king of
Spain was ‘head of the most extensive
empire that any king in the world has
ruled’. (Cited in Lison Tolosana, La
imagen del rey, 19—23.)
6. Camden, Historie, book IV, 131. The
‘empire on which the sun never set’
conceit, used by Vergil, was apparently
first applied to the Habsburgs
by the city of Messina in 1535, to
celebrate Charles V’s victorious return
from the conquest of Tunis (Gil,
‘Vision europea de la Monarquia’, 66).
For subsequent uses see Elliott, Countduke,
47—8.
7. See Losada, Sepulveda, 64—74 94—
100; Niccoli, Prophecy and people,
113—20 and 168—88; Headley, ‘The
Habsburg world empire’, 93-127;
idem, ‘Rhetoric and reality’, 241-
69; Parry, The Spanish theory of
empire-, and Bosbach, Monarchia
universalis.
8. Not all the texts went into print
immediately: Campanella’s De monarchia
hispanica discursus remained unpublished
until 1640 (at Amsterdam);
Valdes, De dignitate regum, approved
for publication in 1595, only came
out in 1602 (at Granada); Borrell, De
regis catholici praestantia, completed in
1597, appeared in print only in 1611
(at Milan); Salazar de Mendoza,
Monarchia de Espana, written between
1598 and 1600, saw publication only
in 1770. However Lopez Madera,
Excelencias de la monarchia y reyno de
Espana, did appear in 1597 (at
Madrid). On these (and other)
universalist writers from the late
sixteenth century, see Fernandez
Albaladejo, ‘Imperio de por sf; idem,
‘ “De Regis Catholici Praestantia” ’; Diez
del Corral, La Monarquta hispanica,
305-56 (on Campanella); and Pagden,
Spanish imperialism, chaps 2—3. Admittedly
not all Spanish political theorists
advocated universal monarchy; some
indeed (Soto, Covarubbias, Vazquez
de Menchaca) explicitly denied its
usefulness: see Pagden, Lords of all the
world, 53-61. Nevertheless, even
Covarubbias dedicated one of his
works, the Practicorum quaestionum liber
of 1556, to ‘Philip the Great’ (see
Fernandez Albaladejo, ‘Imperio de por
si’, 174-5)-
9. Details from Checa, Felipe II, 2J1—2
and 486 (see yet more imperialist
examples in those locations).
10. Bouza Alvarez, ‘Retorica da imagem
real’, 39 (and plate 2 above); W.
302 Notes to pp. 4—j
Bigges, ‘A summarie and true discourse
of Sir Francis Drake’s West
Indian Voyage’ (1589), in Keeler, Sir
Francis Drake’s West Indian voyage,
245-6 and 315 (and plate 3 above).
11. IVdeDJ 62/916, Duarte Nunes de
Leao to Gabriel de Zayas, 8 Aug.
1585. Although Checa, Felipe //, 281-
2, cites this document, my reading of
the text - including the Latin inscription
(which is a play upon Vergil,
Aeneid, VI, 797: ‘Extra anni solisque
vias’) — differs from his. Tanner, hast
descendant, 163, records and reproduces
another ‘imperialist’ medal from
this period whose obverse displayed
Philip IPs face and the reverse a globe
with a yoke above it held by two
hands and the legend SIC ERAT IN
FATis. Some found this presumptuous:
see BAV JJL, 1115/61, ‘Aviso’ from
Madrid, 26 July 1586.
12. On Spain’s external influence, see
Deswarte-Rosa, Ideias e imagens, 55—
122 (‘Roma desfeita’); and Bouza
Alvarez, Locos, 40 (on early modern
Spain’s export of jokes and comedians
all over the European continent).
13. CDCV, IV, 127, Philip II to Charles
V, 16 Nov. 1554 (see also the similar
statement from 1558 in Rodriguez-
Salgado, Changing face, 161); ASMo
CD Carteggio di Principi, Spagna, i,
unfoL, Philip II to the duke of Ferrara,
30 June 1572. At this time, in the
Netherlands, the duke of Alba was
convinced that the French were preparing
to invade (see Epistolario, III,
119-20 and 160, Alba to Philip II, 23
May and 18 July 1572), and he was
absolutely right: see Sutherland, The
massacre of St Bartholomew, chaps 13—
14.
14. BMO, II, 254, Philip II to the count
of Olivares, Spanish ambassador in
Rome, 22 July 1586; and Perena
Vicente, Teorta de la guerra, 62, from
a funeral oration in 1598, quoting a
letter from Philip to the corregidor
of Toro.
15. The attempt to invade England in
1587—88 seemed an aberration, but
even here Philip IPs aide and biographer,
Luis Cabrera de Cordoba,
claimed ‘self-defence’: ‘The king did
not go to war against the queen and
the kingdom of England because of
ambition or an insatiable desire to
increase his Monarchy through the
conquest of new states . . . The war
against England, although an offensive
act on Spain’s part (because we
struck the first blow), was defensive in
its motive and was entirely just, being
waged against someone who had broken
the peace without cause, caused
injury by force and deception, [and]
destroyed the Catholic faith . . .
Matters eventually reached such a
state that these disgraceful insults
provoked King Philip, who was
obliged to avenge them, into action’
(Cabrera, III, 220-1).
16. This ‘security dilemma’ is well analysed
by Trachtenberg, History and
strategy, 64—5. See also Howard, The
lessons of history, 81—96, on the
ambiguous position of Edwardian
Britain at the beginning of the twentieth
century.
17. Quotations from Scott, The Somers
collection, 164—70; MacCaffrey, Queen
Elizabeth, 338—9; and Pincus,
‘Popery’, 18 (see also other fears of a
Spanish ‘universal monarchy’ voiced
by Englishmen ibid., 18-19).
18. Sutherland, The massacre of St
Bartholomew, 265, quoting Coligny;
Groen van Prinsterer, Archives, 2nd
series I, ii, Henry of Navarre to
Leicester, 8 May 1585; Longlee, 308,
letter to Henry III, 23 Sept. 1586; and
he Soldat frangais (1604), quoted with
numerous other contemporaneous
tracts by Bitton and Mortensen, ‘War
or peace’, 129.
19. Quotations from Danvila y Burguero,
Moura, 650—1, Philip II to Gregory
XIII, 10 Aug. 1580; and Berwick y
Alba, Documentos escogidos, 286, Philip
II to Granvelle, 10 July 1581, holograph.
The different strategic perceptions
of the popes and the Habsburgs
during the early modern period are
brilliantly illuminated by Lutz,
Christianitas Afflicta-, Repgen, Die
Notes to pp. -j—io 303
romische Kurie\ and Reinhardt,
tiberleben. See also pp. 80—1 above.
20. BL Addl. 28,263/487-8, Philip II
to Vazquez, 25 Dec. 1588 (‘para la
defensa es menester ofender’). See also
the arguments of Luis de Torres
(1571) in Serrano, III, 324-9, and of
Don Juan de Zuniga (1585), on p. 181
above, that attack was the cheapest
form of defence.
21. See BZ 90/35 ‘Primer discurso sobre lo
que la Armada de Su Magestad podria
hacer’, 28 Nov. 1571 (anonymous);
BNM Ms 783/149-56, Alba to Don
Juan de Zuniga, 17 Dec. 1571.
22. AGS Estado 1239/51, marquis of
Ayamonte to Philip II, 16 June 1574
(I thank Mario Rizzo for bringing this
document to my attention).
23. Torres Lanzas and Navas del Valle,
Catdlogo, II, clxxxiii—iv; Guillen Tato,
Museo Naval, XVIII, fos 146—60,
‘Relacion’; Bishop Ribeiro Gaio
quoted, along with other similar contemporaneous
proposals, in Boxer,
‘Portuguese and Spanish projects’.
24. For further detail on these and other
projects see Headley, ‘Spain’s Asian
presence’, 638-45; Diaz-Trechuelo,
‘Consecuencias’, 1535—6; and Parker,
‘David or Goliath?’, 253—7.
25. Hair, To defend your empire. Boxer,
‘Portuguese and Spanish projects’.
26. See Rizzo, ‘Finanza pubblica’, 311.
Philip II may at times have used
Spanish Italy as a ‘laboratory of government’,
testing policies and initiatives
there before implementing them
elsewhere: see the suggestive article of
Musi, ‘L’ltalia nel sistema imperiale’,
in Musi, Nel sistema imperiale, 51—66,
at pp. 61-2.
27. See the admirable surveys by Pena
Camara, Nuevos datos (quotation, from
Benito Arias Montano in 1571, at
p. 8 note); and Ramos, ‘La crisis
indiana’.
28. Co.Do.ln., XXXVII, 84, Alba to
Philip II, 6 Jan. 1568; Gilissen, ‘Les
phases’; and van de Vrught, De
criminele ordonnantien.
29. Craeybeckx, ‘La Portee fiscale’. The
calculation of the tax was indeed
ingenious: the government took the
average rent for a house to be 6.25
per cent of its capital value, so that
one had to multiply by 16 in order to
calculate its total worth (16 X 6.25 =
100); they then set the tax rate for
income from property at 16 per cent
of the income. So a house rented in
1569-70 for 62.5 florins was valued
at 1,000 florins, and the government
took 16 per cent of the rent, or 10
florins - precisely the ‘hundredth
penny’ of its notional value. Income
from other investments was estimated
at 4.5 per cent, and the multiplier and
tax rate to produce the ‘hundredth
penny’ therefore became 22 instead
of 16 (22 X 4.5 = 99). This method
of calculation prevented owners from
wilfully undervaluing their assets. See
also Parker, Dutch Revolt, 114-17; and
Maltby, Alba, 214—22. The government
in Madrid also decreed some
changes in the fiscal administration of
both Naples and Sicily in 1570-71:
see Muto, ‘Modelli’, 293 and 295.
30. AGNM Bandos I/i, printed ordinance
of I Nov. 1571. In fact unsuccessful
earlier attempts to levy the alcabala
(a well-established Castilian tax) in
the Americas had been made, and
even this one did not take effect until
1574 in Mexico, 1575 in New
Galicia, 1576 in Guatemala, and 1591
in Peru: see Sanchez Bella, La
organizacion financiera, 52-3, and the
text of these later decrees in Encinas,
III, fos 429-45.
31. Duviols, La lutte, 337, noted parallel
efforts against religious deviants in
Granada, the Netherlands and Peru in
1568—71. For a parallel argument that
the Grand Strategy of the Roman
empire can, in the absence of a surviving
‘blueprint’, be deduced from
its policies, see Wheeler, ‘Methodological
limitations’.
32. Canestrini and Desjardins, Negotiations
diplomatiques, IV, 737: Cavriana to
Vinta, 3 Mar. 1587; Laughton, I, 361:
Hawkins to Walsingham, 31 July
1588 OS. See also ibid., II, 59:
Howard to Walsingham, 8 Aug. 1588
304 Notes to pp. 10—14
OS. (‘All the world never saw a force
such as theirs was.’)
33. Groen van Prinsterer, Archives, 2nd
series I, 213: William Louis of Nassau
to Maurice of Nassau, 17 Jan. 1593:
‘le plus grand Monarche du monde’.
Details of Spain’s military achievements
appear in Parker, The Army of
Flanders, and Thompson, War and government.
The work cited is Charles
de Mansfelt, Castra dei (Brussels,
1642).
I The Largest Brain in the
World
1. McNamara, In retrospect, xxi.
2. Ibid., 2.JJ. See also specific examples
of this dilemma at pp. 108, 177 and
273.
3. The reign of Elizabeth offers an
uncanny parallel. She reigned longer
than any English monarch between
Edward III (who began as a minor)
and George III (who ended insane);
had she lived only as long as her
mother and her half-brother, she
would never have become queen;
had she only reached the age of her
half-sister and grandfather she would
have died before Mary Stuart: see
Black, Convergence or divergence?, 118.
The extinction of the direct line
of the Jagiellon (1572), Avis (1580)
and Valois (1589) dynasties underscored
the fragility of hereditary
monarchies.
4. AGS Estado 153/15 5, Gaspar de
Quiroga to Philip II and reply,
undated[= 1574];Co. Do./«.,XXXII,
55^~7) Alba to Gabriel de Zayas, 7
Sept. 1580. The duke asked for nightly
reports on the king’s health. Two days
later he asked that the reports should
bear the hour as well as the date; three
days later he claimed that ‘of all the
things that have happened to me in
this world, nothing has revealed my
weakness until now, when the rulers
who love us best give us concern about
their life and death’ (ibid., pp. 563 and
571). The duke’s concern was soon vindicated:
although Philip recovered.
Queen Anna died the following
month.
5. CCG, X, 137, Morillon to Granvelle,
II Apr. 1583; Longlee, 272, letter to
Henry III, 19 June 1586; CSPV, VIII,
407, Lippomano to the Doge and
Senate, 22 Oct. 1588.
6. AGS CJH 27/214, countess of
Francavilla to Ruy Gomez da Silva
(her son-in-law), 21 Nov. 1557 (concerning
Bartolome Carranza); other
quotations from Eeros, “‘Vicedioses,
pero humanos’”, 110-12; and Vargas
Hidalgo, ‘Documentos ineditos’, 399.
7. Kamen, Philip, v, Philip II on 29 Nov.
1578. Philip may have seen himself as
a martyr to God’s cause by the end of
his reign, however: see Rocca, ‘Court
and cloister’, chap. i. For the anecdotes
quoted here, see Herrera y
Tordesillas, Historia general, II, 46—7;
and Velazquez, La entrada, fos 79—80.
The king also regularly issued pardons
on Good Friday: see Las Heras,
‘Indultos’, 129—30.
8. On the French captives, see AGS
Estado 553/112 and Co.Do.In., CII,
322-5, Philip II to Alba, 27 Nov.
1572, and 21 Oct. 1573. On those
executed by the ‘council of Troubles’,
see Parker, Dutch Revolt, 108 and 292
note 35.
9. BL Addl. 28,263/7, Philip II memorandum,
undated (=1574-75). On
the fueros of Aragon, see Gil,
‘Aragonese constitutionalism’.
10. CCG, X, 126, Granvelle to
Bellefontaine, 3 Apr. 1583.
11. See Parker, Philip II, 175, and Kamen,
Philip, 257. On the seven recorded
attempts to assassinate Philip II, see
Alava, 211-12 (two ‘Flamencos’ in
1567); CSPSp. II, 94 (a Venetian
in 1568) and 137 (William Cecil in
1569); Herrera y Tordesillas, Historia
general, II, 7 (three Frenchmen in
1571); Kamen, Philip, 199 (an
attempt in Lisbon in 1581); IVdeDJ
21/148—5 7, correspondence of
Vazquez with Philip II in Mar. 1583
Notes to pp. 14—19 305
P (another Frenchman); and CSPV, VIII,
174, Gradinegro and Lippomano to
Doge and Senate, 25 June 1586 (a
Portuguese woman). Sometimes the
king did tighten security: in 1568, he
increased his guard from 10 to 100
horsemen when he travelled between
his palaces (Fourquevaux, III, 100:
letter to Catherine de Medici, 17 Aug.
1568); in 1577 and again in 1589
(following the assassination of Henry
III of France), he brought armed
guards when he visited the Escorial
(Sigiienza, 76 and 127).
12. Kamen, Philip, 214—15; Muro, Vida,
appendix 12, Esteban de Ibarra to
Mateo Vazquez, [Apr.] 1578: Ibarra
recalled the attempted assassination of
Ferdinand the Catholic in Barcelona
in 1492. Elizabeth’s speech is best
rendered in Green, ‘“I my self”’.
13. Quotations (from 1584 and 1585) in
Rodriguez-Salgado, ‘The Court of
Philip IF, 241, and Parker, Philip II,
177. On Philip as a striking exemplification
of Castiglione’s ideal, see
Jenkins, The state portrait, 31—4.
14. Santullano, Obras completas de Teresa de
Jesus, 1394: Teresa to Doha Ines Nieto
[1576-77]; Dona, 75-8, letter to
Venice, i Sept. 1570; Porreno, Dichos
y hechos (1628), quoted with other
interesting material in Feros,
“‘Vicedioses pero humanos”’, no.
15. Dona, 677-81, letter to Venice, 17
Apr. 1573; BCR Ms 2417/39, Don
Juan de Silva to Esteban de Ibarra, 13
Aug. 1589 (for the context of this
remark see pp. 66—7 above); Gonzalez
Olmedo, Don Francisco Terrones, xl,
from Terrones’s funeral oration for
Philip II, 19 Oct. 1598.
16. Furio Ceriol, El concejo y consejeros del
prmcipe (1559), 95; council sizes from
Alvar Ezquerra, Felipe II, 16—21. The
Venetian ambassador in 1557
reported that Philip IPs household
numbered 1,500 officials (Firpo,
Relazioni, VIII, 150); a list of 1566 put
it at 1,450, with a further 450 in the
households of the queen, the prince,
and Princess Juana (BAV UL 829/4/
652—63); and BPM Ms II—2291,
unfoL, Antonio de Rojas, governor to
Don Carlos, to Granvelle, 12 May
1560, estimated the total number of
courtly ‘mouths’ to feed at 4,000.
17. Alvar Ezquerra, Felipe II, 22. See also
Fernandez Alvarez, Madrid ha jo Felipe
II. On the configuration of the Madrid
palace during Philip’s reign, see
Barbeito, El Alcazar de Madrid, 33—83
and Orso, Philip IV, 13 and 122—42.
Some critics alleged that the remodelling
of the palace in the 1580s enabled
the king to ‘take refuge there during
the winters, and his success can be
seen from the fact that he avoids
audiences there better than in either
the Pardo or the Escorial’ (BAV UL
1115/108—9, newsletter from Madrid,
10 Jan. 1587).
18. Rodriguez-Salgado, ‘The Court of
Philip IF, 218. See also the examples
cited in Kamen, Philip, 198, and the
charming account of Philip on his way
to hear Mass deliberately walking
slowly so that his subjects could speak
to him or give him their petitions in
person: Dona, 319, letter to Venice, 3
July 1571.
19. Riba, 105—6, Vazquez to Philip II,
23 Apr. 1577, summarized by
Rodriguez-Salgado, ‘The Court of
Philip IF, 219. Espinosa planned to
see the king ‘carrying the memoranda,
so he can speak about them as he holds
them in his hand’ - a suggestion made
by the perplexed monarch the previous
day when he failed to understand
the document on its own: see note 116
below.
20. Riba, 394—5, Vazquez to Philip II and
reply, 30 Apr. 1586: the irritated king
made the same point three times in
the same paragraph.
21. Archivum Romanum Societatis lesu,
Rome, Epistolae Hispaniae 143/293—
4v, holograph report by Acosta, 16
Sept. 1588. Admittedly the king had
known Francisco de Borja well - both
as a courtier and minister before he
took religious vows (in 1548) and
afterwards as confessor to both his
grandmother and his sister Juana —
and so had a personal interest; but
d
3o6 Notes to pp. 1^—20
many of the other exchanges reported
by Acosta seem a waste of time.
22. Riba, 44, Philip II to Vazquez, 23
May 1576. For other examples of
how long individual audiences could
last, see the blow-by-blow accounts in
Fourquevaux, II, 427-30; Dona, 75-
8, 159—65 and 220—4; Mosconi,
La nunziatura, 72—8 and 81—5.
Speciano obtained fourteen audiences
during his thirty months at Court
(Apr. 1586-N0V. 1588), and his subsequent
descriptions of the business
transacted took up five or six pages
each in his dispatches to the Curia:
these meetings must therefore have
lasted at least an hour each.
23. Dona, 373, letter to Venice, 2 Nov.
1571 (see also the subsequent account
of the same incident in Sigiienza, 43).
24. Fourquevaux, II, 388-9, letter to
Charles IX, 12 Nov. 1571. Philip also
muttered something more specific,
but Fourquevaux missed it: ‘The said
king then, with a smile, said something
so softly that I could not hear it’.
Fourquevaux’s detailed report of this
audience contains other interesting
details. First, like Acosta’s audience in
1588, it demonstrates that, contrary
to the assertions of many historians,
Philip II did not always merely listen;
second, since the king always seemed
so well informed, Fourquevaux found
it prudent before each audience to
visit both the leading Spanish ministers
and some other ambassadors at
Court in order to ascertain what
Philip might already know about
French affairs; and third he noted the
dismissive nomenclature used by the
king about his opponents - he did not
refer to Jeanne d’Albret as queen of
Navarre (Spain had annexed most of
that kingdom in 1512) but as
‘madame de Vendosme’, and he
referred to Count Louis merely as
‘Ludovic’, without any title. Philip
had good cause for concern: Jeanne
travelled to Paris expressly to arrange
the marriage of her son, the future
Henry IV, with Charles’s sister
Marguerite de Valois, ahd Louis of
Nassau sought to involve the French
king in his plan to start a new rebellion
in the Netherlands: for his success
in this, see pp. 124-5 above.
25. Dona, 39-40 and 198, letters to
Venice, 6 June 1570 (Philip replied
‘con poche parole, ma veramente
esquisite como e di suo costume’) and
4 Feb. 1571 (‘three or four words’). See
also the remarks of Giovan Maria
Cecchi on Philip’s taciturnity in audiences,
quoted in Bouza Alvarez,
‘Guardar papeles, I’, 5. On the king’s
amnesia after audiences, see IVdeDJ
53/5/15, Philip II to Vazquez, 27 Jan.
1576. Interestingly, the king and his
senior ministers warned their own envoys
never to communicate with other
governments in writing for precisely
this reason — it allowed longer to prepare
a reply! (See Epistolario, III, 257,
Alba to Monteagudo, Philip IPs ambassador
at the Imperial Court, Nov.
1572, minute.) The Venetian Council
of Ten also forbade its ambassadors to
negotiate in writing for much the
same reason: see Dona, 733, letter of 5
Sept. 1573.
26. Maura, 38, Philip II to the duke of
Medina Sidonia, 29 Oct. 1578; see
also Alava, 56-7, Zayas to Alava, Jan.
1572, telling him to write down the
comments he wished to convey to the
king in person. Philip knew, however,
that audiences played an important
role in maintaining contact between
a conscientious ruler and his subjects:
see his advice to his son in
the ‘Raggionamenti’, quoted in
Reivtndicacion, 174-5.
27. Fourquevaux, II, 18 and 21, letters
to Charles IX and Catherine de
Medici, 18 Nov. 1568. See another
example, from 1569, ibid., II, 87-8.
Fourquevaux could draw on extensive
experience, having twice been the
prisoner of the Spaniards and having
previously served as ambassador in
Scotland, Ireland and Germany. See
also Dona, 393-4, letter to Venice,
26 Nov. 1571: an extraordinary
ambassador arrived from Venice to
congratulate Philip on Lepanto, but
Notes to pp. 20—j 307
decided not to ask for an audience
until the king returned from the
Escorial, because ‘His Majesty does
not want ambassadors to come and
worry him’ there.
28. Mosconi, La nunziatura., 16—17,
Novara to Rusticucci, 18 Oct. 1586.
The reports of ambassadors at the
Court of Spain to their home government
frequently commented on the
difficulty of obtaining an audience
with the king (see, for example,
Fourquevaux, II, 347: his replacement
arrived on 23 Feb. 1572 but could not
present his credentials until 15 Mar.).
It could also be hard to find a moment
with the principal ministers: in Mar.
1588 the Mantuan ambassador was
summoned by Secretary of State
Idiaquez to join him at Mass in the
church of San Jeronimo, near the
palace, because ‘he had business to
discuss’! (ASMa AG Spagna, 601
unfol., Aqui to Mantua, 14 Mar.
1588.) See also ASV NS 19/263,
Novara to Rusticucci, ii June 1587,
reporting his meeting with Idiaquez
in a cloister after Mass.
29. BL Eg. 330/4-20, ‘Copia de carta que
escrivio al Senor Rey Phelipe II Don
Luis Manrique’, c. 1577 (fo. 8); BNM
Ms 18718 no. 55 ‘Papel a Philippo IF,
also c. 1577 (quote from fo. 99V graciously
provided by Antonio Feros).
On the novelty of written court
culture in the later sixteenth century,
see Bouza Alvarez, ‘Leer en palacio’.
30. Riba, 25-6, Vazquez to Philip II, 21
Mar. 1576 (Philip had acted as regent
of Spain for the first time in 1543 -
precisely thirty-three years before).
On Avalos, see Carlos Morales, El
consejo de Hacienda, 116.
31. Bouza Alvarez, Del escribano a la
biblioteca, 81—2, quoting Mendoza;
CCG, X, 190, Granvelle to Morillon,
7 May 1583. On the king’s deliberate
‘invisibility’, see Checa, ‘Felipe II en
El Escorial’, 17-21; Elliott, ‘The
Court of the Spanish Habsburgs’,
148—9; Bouza Alvarez, Del escribano a
la biblioteca, 84-5; and Feros, ‘Twin
souls: monarchs and favourites’, 33—5.
32. Sigiienza, 57; Firpo, Relazioni, VIII,
257 (Lorenzo Priuli in 1576).
33. Until recently only the council of the
Indies had received detailed study:
Schafer, El consejo real y supremo de las
Indias, with a collection of conciliar
documents for Aragon, mostly from
1587—88, in Riba y Garcia, El consejo
supremo de Aragon. Now see Arrieta
Alberdi, El consejo supremo de la corona
de Aragon-, Carlos Morales, El consejo de
Hacienda-, and Fernandez Alvarez,
Felipe II, 47—74.
34. BL Addl. 28,399/20, Philip II to
viceroy of Sicily, 20 Jan. 1559; Alvar
Ezquerra, ‘Unas “reglas generales” ’.
See the wide range of councils with
which Ambassador Don Juan de
Zuniga corresponded from Rome in
Nueva Co.Do.In., I—V (his correspondence
just for 1574!). Sanchez-Bella, La
organizacion financiera, 4, Philip II to
the Audiencia of Charcas, 15 Oct.
1595-
35. For 1566 see Cabrera, I, 491-2; ASG
AS 2412A, unfol., Sauli to Genoa, 29
Apr. 1566 (Philip’s attendance at the
council seemed ‘cosa molta insolita’);
and UB Leiden Hs Pap. 3/2, Alonso de
Laloo to Count Hornes, 22 July 1566.
According to HHStA Spanien Varia
ib/r/20, ‘Aviso’ of 28 Apr. 1566, the
king ‘always brought in and took out
the papers [to the meetings], not
leaving them in the hands of his
secretaries’.
36. Others used the same system: Juan
Martinez de Recalde and the duke of
Medina Sidonia exchanged billetes
during the Armada campaign (p. 264
above) and Charles I of England wrote
comments — sometimes quite rude! —
on memoranda from his ministers: see
examples in Sharpe, The personal rule,
203-4.
37. Mateo Vazquez seems to have seen the
king for two hours at a time in the
1580s - see IVdeDJ 55/XI/123 and
190, Vazquez to Philip II, 29 July and
16 Sept. 1588, with royal replies allocating
a two-hour slot in which to
transact business - and of course
Vazquez was just one of several
3o8 Notes to pp. 23—3
secretaries transacting council business
with the king. For an idea of what
the ‘arch-secretary’ handled at these
meetings, see IVdeDJ 101/105-19,
Vazquez’s notes on the matters discussed
each day that he met with the
king, Oct. 1585-Mar. 1586. For a
description by Juan Ruiz de Velasco,
the king’s valet, of how the king and
Vazquez dealt with matters at these
meetings, see Parker, Philip II, 33.
38. ASG AS 2416, unfoL, Sebastian de
Santoyo to Ambassadors Fiescho and
Passano, 31 July 1579.
39. AGS GA 155/193, royal apostil to a
consulta on Indies business dated 10
Mar. 1583. See also ACA CA 36/312,
consulta of the council of Aragon to
Philip II [1583], sending an emergency
order already in final form
directly ‘for Your Majesty to sign, if
he wishes’. (Mateo Vazquez commented:
‘The letters have been signed
and it was very good to send them in
order to save time’.) Heredia Herrera,
Catdlogo, I, 649, council of the Indies
to Philip II, 26 Aug. 1589, reveals
once more the king’s sanction for the
practice of sending the outgoing letter
for signature along with the consulta
that recommended it ‘in cases of urgent
necessity’. See also the interesting
case in BMO, II, 254, Philip II to
the count of Olivares, 22 July 1586,
minute, which the king wanted to
change. Idiaquez added: ‘The underlined
passage was removed from the
ciphered text, changing the characters
totally so that they could not be read’
— in other words, the final version had
been encrypted before the king had
even read the draft. The same seems to
have happened with ibid., II, 338,
Philip II to Mendoza, 5 Sept. 1586.
40. BZ 144/11, Vazquez to Philip II, 20
May 1574. See also Vazquez’s
repeated attempts during the Armada
emergency to bring a letter from the
duke of Infantado to the king’s attention:
p. 68 above.
41. AGS Estado 570/139, Perez to Juan de
Escobedo (Don John’s secretary), Apr.
1576, minute; BNP M.s. Esp. 132/
179-80, Perez to Juan de Vargas
Mexia, 26 Jan. 1579, original. On
Perez’s other deceptions and on his
fall, see Parker, Philip II, chap. 8,
Kamen, Philip, 162—8, and Mignet,
Perez, 21—32.
42. Herrera Oria, 152: Idiaquez and
Moura to Medina Sidonia, 22 Feb.
1588, discussed in Martin and Parker,
Spanish Armada, 148. Interestingly,
the duke’s letter appears to be missing
from the state archives.
43. On the sumiller de corps (‘groom of the
Stole’), from whose sight palace etiquette
demanded that the king
‘should never withdraw’, see Feros,
‘Twin souls: monarchs and favourites’,
37-8.
44. GPGP, II, 485, Perez to Philip II and
reply, undated {Apr. 1565].
45. IVdeDJ 67/211, Requesens to Don
Juan de Zuniga, 14 Apr. 1574,
explaining why he had decided to
write directly to the king, ‘closing my
eyes to the fate that normally awaits
absentees’. This initiative caused
problems at Court: on the one hand,
Mateo Vazquez had to decode the ‘secret’
letters himself (IVdeDJ 44/57,
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, ii
Apr. 1574); on the other, since writing
replies inevitably involved consulting
others, he then had to prepare
‘sanitized’ versions of Requesens’s
letters to circulate - see, for example,
IVdeDJ 68/28ya, Philip II to
Vazquez, 28 June 1574: ‘Make a
precis and think about who should see
it . . . according to who wrote the
letters to which he [Requesens]
replies’.
46. See IVdeDJ 68/231—2, Requesens to
the marquis of Los Velez, 23 July
1575, giving the history of his relations
with every member of the
council of State and noting his success
in avoiding the ‘passions between Ruy
Gomez and the duke of Alba’. This
heart-searching was occasioned by the
fact that Requesens had received no
letter from the Court for nine months,
which he could only assume indicated
that someone had turned the king
Notes to pp. 23—7 309
against him. The nature of ‘faction’ in
the courts of sixteenth-century Europe
is hotly debated. For Spain, see
Boyden, The courtier and the king, chap.
5; and Martinez Millan, La corte de
Felipe II, especially the introduction
and chap. 2. For England, see Adams,
‘Favourites and factions’.
47. Muro, Vida, 115, Vazquez to Philip
II, 3 July 1579. On the fall of Perez,
see Parker, Philip II, chap. 8, and
Kamen, Philip, 163-8.
48. GCP, I, 358, Perez to Tomas de
Armenteros, 30 June 1565, about the
contradictory letters sent to the Low
Countries by the king in April (working
with his Spanish advisers) and in
May (drafted by his Netherlands
officials).
49. Thompson, War and government, 79.
Although Thompson’s charge holds
good for some periods, from time to
time Philip II endeavoured to ensure
that the council of Finance monitored
both the income and expenditure
handled by several other councils: see
Carlos Morales, El consejo de Hacienda,
233-49. On Erasso, ‘to whose hands
and management almost everything is
now entrusted’, see Laubespine, 66,
letter to Francis II, 4 Aug. 1559; and
Carlos Morales, ‘El poder de los
secretaries reales’.
50. Fourquevaux, II, 88, letter to
Catherine de Medici, 6 July 1569;
AGS Estado 148/181, count of
Chinchon to the governor of Milan,
12 Dec. 1566; IVdeDJ 81/1251,
Requesens to Zuniga, Nov. 1572.
51. AMAE MEMO Espagne 239/126-35,
Philip II to Diego de Covarrubias
[autumn 1572], copy. Fourquevaux
had already noted that the ‘excessive
power’ delegated by Philip II to
Espinosa seemed ‘contrary to his
nature and his custom’ (Fourquevaux,
II, 55, letter to Charles IX, 28 Feb.
1569). In his ‘Instruction’ of 1543,
Charles V had warned his son: ‘Do not
bind yourself to, or become dependent
on, any individual, because although
it may save time it will do you no
good’ (CDCV, II, 109). Philip’s words
to Covarrubias sounded remarkably
similar: perhaps he remembered — or
had even read again — what his father
had told him.
52. The critical matters handled by these
juntas largely escaped the scrutiny of
the conciliar system and, until
recently, the attention of historians:
see Lovett, Philip IP, idem, ‘Juan de
Ovando and the council of Finance,’;
idem, ‘The Castilian bankruptcy of
1575’; and Carlos Morales, El consejo de
Hacienda, 113-78.
53. BL Addl. 28,263/222, Philip II to
Mateo Vazquez, 14 Apr. 1579. See
also BZ 144/16, same to same, 6 Nov.
1574: ‘Since I wrote to you, something
has come up that I need to talk
to you about, so be ready from i
o’clock onwards for when I call you,
which will be when I can . . .’
54. BL Addl 28,399/20, Philip II to the
viceroy of Sicily, 20 Jan. 1559, copy.
See also AGS Estado 1049/107, Philip
II to the viceroy of Naples, 13 Feb.
1559, minute (interestingly enough,
the secretary had omitted the passage
about ‘sending letters directly to me’
but the king noticed and ordered its
insertion ‘as in the other letters’). For
Requesens’s direct correspondence, see
p. 77 above.
55. BL Addl 28,357/45, Philip II to the
governor of Lombardy, draft, 29 Aug.
1574; BZ 141/108, Philip II to Mateo
Vazquez, i May 1586 (the ‘offender’
was the marquis of Almazan, viceroy
of Navarre). This passage indicates
that even Vazquez did not open letters
addressed to the king ‘en su mano’.
56. BL Addl 28,363/83, consulta of the
count of Barajas, president of the
council of Castile, 25 May 1587, with
royal response.
57. Two further examples: Lagomarsino,
‘Court factions’, for the influence of
Fray Lorenzo de Villavicencio on
Philip II’s response to the development
of heresy in the Low Countries;
and Loomie, The Spanish Elizabethans,
chap. 3, for Hugo Owens. For some
general reasons why the reports
of outsiders are likely to impress
310 Notes to pp. 27—9
government ministers, see Halperin,
Bureaucratic politics, 143—4 (quoting
George F. Kennan).
58. Encinas, II, 311-15, repeated royal
orders to various ministers in the
Americas to allow everyone the
freedom to write to him (1551, 1573,
1575. 1586 and 1595).
59. IVdeDJ 44/37-44, papers sent by
Mendieta in Apr. 1587, forwarded to
Vazquez on 29 Dec. and sent by him
to the king on 7 Jan. 1588; and BZ
143/7, Vazquez to Philip II and reply,
9 Jan. 1588, about his meeting with
‘un Acosta, jesuita’. On Mendieta, see
Phelan, The millenarial kingdom-, for an
earlier letter of Mendieta to the king,
see p. 58 above. On Acosta’s mission
to Spain in 1587-88, see Headley,
‘Spain’s Asian presence’, 642—3.
60. Laubespine, 49, letter to the cardinal
of Lorraine, 27 July 1559.
61. Carlos Morales, El consejo de Hacienda,
74 and 224; Schafer, El consejo. . . de
las Indias, 140; Thompson, War and
government, 38. The councils did not
work on Sundays or in Holy Week,
however, and observed over fifty holidays:
see Arrieta Alberdi, El consejo . . .
de Aragon, 242-3.
62. Andres, ‘Diurnal’, 17—22; IVdeDJ 97,
‘Libro de memoriales’ (20 Aug. 1583
to 31 Dec. 1584).
63. The hundreds of minor emendations
made by the king to the letters sent to
the Doria family have been noted by
their editor, Rafael Vargas Hidalgo:
pending their publication, see the
report in the Spanish periodical ABC,
7 Oct. 1995, p. 59. Compare the testimony
of Dean Rusk, United States
Secretary of State, about the outgoing
traffic of his department in the 1960s:
‘Of the thousand or so cables that go
out of here every day, I see only five or
six and the President only one or two’
(quoted in Halperin, Bureaucratic politics,
292).
64. Riba, 36, Philip II to Vazquez, 30 May
1576 (‘Hoy no os he podido llamar por
echar de my papeles, que lo menos ha
sido firmar casi 400 firmas’). From
1543 until 1554 (when he
became king of England), Philip
signed his Spanish letters ‘Yo el
prmcipe’. Thereafter, although he
signed letters written in French ‘Phle’,
those to the pope and to Portugal ‘El
Rey’, and those in German ‘Philipp’,
his official style in Spanish remained
‘Yo el Rey’ - witness his testimony to
the Spanish Inquisition during the
Carranza trial in 1562 (surely the only
time the king had to give evidence
under oath): when asked to state his
name, Philip replied ‘Yo el Rey’! See
Tellechealdigoras, Carranza, III, 182—
8 and 404-5. In 1593 he contemplated
changing the ‘Nos’ (we), with which
edicts customarily began, to ‘Yo’ (I):
see Bouza Alvarez, ‘Monarchie en
lettres d’imprimerie’, 209.
65. ASVe Senato: dispacci Spagna 20/68—
72, Lippomano to Venice, 14 Apr.
1587 (partial precis in CSPV, VIII,
266); ACA CA 36/325, consulta of
the council of Aragon, 25 Mar. 1594
(with the royal decree written and initialled
by Prince Philip); AGNM
CRD ibis/43, Philip II to the viceroy
of Mexico, 24 Sept. 1597 (announcing
that because of the difficulty he now
experienced in writing, and because
Prince Philip ‘is now a man and enjoys
good health’ who was ‘beginning to
learn about the business of government’,
he would henceforth sign royal
letters. See also Documentos... El
Escorial, II, 49, clause 16 of the codicil
to Philip II’s will, 23 Aug. 1597).
Birch, Memoirs, 82, Anthony Standen
to Lord Burghley, 8 Sept. 1592 (ironically,
Burghley worked in a very similar
way, preferring to read and write
things himself rather than use secretaries:
see Smith, ‘The secretariats of
the Cecils’).
66. IVdeDJ 61/130 Philip II to Pedro de
Hoyo, Apr. 1567; BL Addl. 28,699/
114, Philip II to Mateo Vazquez, 2
May 1577. Normally, although the
king could read papers in the countryside,
he could not annotate them
there: CCG, XII, 514-15, Philip II to
Granvelle, 7 Aug. 1579. Two years
later, however, he did manage to write
Notes to pp. 2^—^ I 311
while in his carriage, and Granvelle
chided him for working too hard (loc.
cit., 621—2, Granvelle to Philip II, 27
Mar. 1581).
67. IVdeDJ 51/162 and 180, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 11 Apr. and 15
Oct. 1578.
68. IVdeDJ 51/187 and 55/XI/121-2,
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 26 Jan.
1581 and 27 July 1588. For other
examples of writing at ten without
having broken off for dinner, see
IVdeDJ 53/VI/17 and 21/253, same to
same, 15 May 1577 and 14 July 1578.
69. Kamen, Philip, 251: Philip II memorandum,
3 Feb. 1584. For early examples
of not reading incoming mail in
full, see AGS Estado 524/4 and 6,
Granvelle and Margaret of Parma to
Philip II, 10 and 12 Mar. 1563, both
with instructions to his secretary
‘Sacadme los puntos’.
70. BZ 148/187, Vazquez to the marquis
of Almazan, 17 July 1588, minute;
BZ 143/88, Philip II to Vazquez and
reply, 14 June 1588.
71. Longlee, 366, letter to Henry III, 30
Apr. 1588 (the king was then 61
years old); BRB Mr II.1028/270-V,
‘Passetemps de lehan Lhermite’,
describing and illustrating the clocks
with candles attached (still to be seen
in Philip’s study at the Escorial); BL
Addl 28,700/156, Vazquez to Philip
II and reply, 14 Feb. 1587; and
IVdeDJ 45/122-34 consultas for 12,
15, 16 and 18 Jan. 1596. IVdeDJ 45/
122-256 and 349—548 contain
numerous reports of the Junta Grande
and the Junta de Gobierno for 1588—
98. A study of these steering committees
is urgently required; in the
meantime see the discussion in Lovett,
Philip II, 201-7.
72. Vargas Hidalgo, ‘Documentos
ineditos’, 418, nuncio to Rome, 2
Aug. 1598; Feros, ‘Lerma y Olivares’,
210-11.
73. IVdeDJ 55/IX/79-82, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 4 May 1586; BZ
146/219, council of Finance to Philip
II, 14 June 1588, with royal reply on
the i8th; and BZ 143/97, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 18 June 1588. A
few months later, when it again
seemed to the king that Vazquez was
forwarding too many consultas, he
told him not to send more (‘unless
they are urgent’) until he started
returning those he already had:
IVdeDJ 55/XI/251-2, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 18 Nov. 1588. Cf.
President Kennedy doing the same in
1962: Sorensen, Decision-making in the
White House, 18.
74. IVdeDJ 55/XI/149—50, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 4 Aug. 1588. See
the interesting comments of Sir Ian
Jacob on Winston Churchill’s
‘priority system’: Wheeler-Bennett,
Action this day, 179.
75. Ricotti, ‘Degli scritti di Emanuele-
Filiberto’, 94; Berwick y Alba,
Documentos escogidos, 100—i, Cordoba
to Alba, I Feb. 1571; AA 32/42 and
44, Cordoba to Prior Don Hernando
de Toledo, 4 Aug. 1574 and 14 Sept.
1575-
76. Quotations from Johnson, Managing
the White House, 19 and 35; see also
Neustadt, Presidential power, 131-3,
and Drucker, The effective executive,
149—50. Neustadt notes that such
‘exposure to detail’ can go too far, citing
the examples of Presidents Herbert
Hoover (1929—33), who personally
read and approved every letter sent by
the Budget Bureau to executive agencies,
and Jimmy Carter (1977-81),
who read between 300 and 450 pages
of memoranda a day during his presidency
(ibid., 336 n. 4 and 230).
Johnson {Managing the White House,
177), likewise criticized the misconceived
‘intrusions into detail’ by President
Lyndon Johnson (1963—69).
77. Wheeler-Bennett, Action this day, 178.
See also Johnson, Managing the White
House, 217 (President Richard Nixon,
1969-74, ‘much preferred spending
three minutes reading a memo to
hearing someone out in person for a
quarter of an hour’); and Drucker, The
effective executive, 29—30 (‘People are
time-consumers and most people are
time-wasters’).
Notes to pp. 32—4
78. Quotations from Wheeler-Bennett,
Action this day, 20 and 22 (Lord
Normanbrook), 186—7 (Sit Ian Jacob)
and 50 (Sir John Colville). Recently
published documents reveal that the
Soviet leader V. I. Lenin (1917-24)
also ‘treated his vast realm like a
private estate, ordering remote provinces
on one day to ship logs, specified
to a fraction of an inch . . ., and on
another, to deliver sheep and pigs’
(Pipes, The unknown Lenin, 13, 81—2
and 136-7).
79. Dona, 350, letter to Venice, 23 Aug.
1571; Firpo, Relazioni, VIII, 669;
Perez de Herrera, Elogio, 92; van der
Hammen, Don Felipe el Prudente, fo.
186.
80. Neustadt, Presidential power, 129—30.
The author advised Presidents
Truman and Carter, and President
Nixon’s advisers claimed to have
studied the first (i960) edition
closely. Johnson, Managing the White
House, 133-4, praised President
Kennedy’s insistence on receiving data
directly from a very wide range of
sources and his refusal ‘to take the
chance that his subordinates were
screening out criticisms, alternatives
or information on his or their errors’
(see also pp. 11 on Roosevelt and 63—
4 on Truman, and the further examples
in Sorensen, Decision-making in the
White House, 36—9, and in Halperin,
Bureaucratic politics, chap. 9). Margaret
Thatcher agreed: close advisers (she
wrote), whether or not members of the
government, must be allowed direct
access more or less when they wished
‘if a prime minister is not to be the
prisoner of his (or her) in-tray’
(Thatcher, The Downing Street years,
135). President Bill Clinton in the
1990s maintained a special ‘zip code’
and a personal fax number that allowed
trusted ‘outsiders’ to communicate
directly to his private office any
matters that they thought he should
know. The dramatic consequences of
‘tailoring’ information to suit the perceived
preferences of the central government
of Wilhelmine Germany
312
appear in Lebow, Between peace and
war, 126—30 and 140.
81. BZ 144/33, Vazquez to Philip II and
reply, 6 Dec. 1574. For an example
of a secret correspondence, Mateo
Vazquez’s exchanges with the duke
of Medinaceli in 1572—73, see pp.
130-1 above; for examples of intercepted
and opened letters see p. 54
above.
82. IVdeDJ 55/IV/65, Vazquez to Philip
II and reply, 29 Aug. 1581. The king
claimed that such secrecy was necessary
‘because if it is known that meetings
are taking place, once people see
who is involved they will guess the
subject’.
83. Fourquevaux, II, 304: letter Charles
IX, 19 Dec. 1570. See also ibid., pp.
389-90, to same, 12 Nov. 1571 (‘He
is a prince who keeps [his thoughts] in
his heart and does not say what he
thinks’); and Dona, 233 and 509,
letters to Venice of 14 Mar. 1571 (‘nel
cuori [of Philip and his ministers] non
posso penetrar’) and 16 July 1572
(on their ‘misterio di exquisita
taciturnita’).
84. Solorzano y Pereira, Polttica indiana,
V, 166, quoting the marquis of
Montesclaros, viceroy of Peru 1607-
15-
85. See the regional examples in Cespedes
del Castillo, ‘La visita como
institucion Indiana’; Rizzo, ‘Finanza
pubblica’; Peytavin, La Visite\ and
Lefevre, ‘Le Tribunal de la Visite’.
For a visita of a council, see Carlos
Morales, El consejo de Hacienda, 94—9;
and of an overseas institution,
see Phelan, The kingdom of Quito, part
III.
86. Antonio Clementino in 1577 quoted
in Bratli, Philippe II, 224. See two
examples quoted in Salazar, Poli'tica
espanola, 112-13.
87. See, for example, AGS Estado 13 9/2 o i,
corrected cedula of 1560 in
favour of Francisco de Erasso, the most
powerful secretary at this time: the
king had spotted that the total of the
rewards accorded exceeded the sum
of the parts. See a further example.
Notes to pp. 34—6 313
from the records of the council of the
Indies, cited in Parker, Philip II, 34-5.
88. BL Addl 28,263/432, Mateo Vazquez
to Philip II and reply, ii Aug. 1587.
On Piedrola, see Kagan, Lucrecia’s
dreams, 95-101, and p. 34 above.
89. See, by way of example. Riba, 54—5:
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 3 Sept.
1576 (the king repeated three times
that he needed more information
before taking a decision); BL Addl
28,700/339, Philip II to Vazquez, 25
May 1590 (‘until I am better
informed, I do not wish to comment
on this matter’: Vazquez was to find
out more ‘and give me a report on it
all, so that I can see what should be
done’); BL Addl 28,528/30-1,
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 9 Apr.
1582 (concerning a letter from
Vespasian Gonzaga, of which ‘I could
not make out a single word’: would
Vazquez make a copy); and BL Addl
28,702/96—8, Granvelle to Philip II
and reply, 3 Mar. 1582 (translate into
Castilian a letter from Mary queen of
Scots ‘which is very badly written’).
90. See, for example, the testy ‘Do this
again, without the underlined bit
which no one will understand’:
IVdeDJ 55/X/181, Philip II to the
duke of Albuquerque, Oct. 1587,
draft. For another example of the king
correcting the diplomatic style of an
improperly drafted letter, see BL
Addl. 28,263/236, Philip II to Mateo
Vazquez, 3 Feb. 1581.
91. BL Addl 28,361/110, corrected draft
of the Pragmatic, ii Sept. 1586,
returned to Mateo Vazquez who (sarcastically?)
endorsed the file ‘Coronets
and courtesies’. Numerous drafts of
the Pragmdtica en que se da la orden y
forma que se ha de tener y guardar en los
tratamientos y cortestas de palabra y por
escripto (finally issued on 8 Oct. 1586),
festooned with royal apostils, fill fos
31-145 of this volume.
92. AGS Estado 949/191-5, ‘Lo que Su
Magestad resolvio’ (on allocating the
vast number of benefices left vacant
by Cardinal Granvelle); BZ 134/1,
undated Philip II memorandum (c.
1571), and BZ 135/77 royal, apostil
on the count of Barajas to Vazquez, 16
Apr. 1579 (concerning palace etiquette);
BZ 85/65, Don Juan de
Zuniga to Philip II and reply, 1585
(on coaches); IVdeDJ 45/464, Junta
Grande to Philip II and reply, 10 June
1592 (on how the city of Valladolid
should receive him); IVdeDJ 55/VIII/
25, Vazquez to Philip II and reply,
4 Oct. 1585 (on lodgings); ACA
Generalitat 929/120-3V, Philip II to
viceroy, standing committee of the
Estates and council in Barcelona, 23
Apr. 1564 (concerning the division
of the new royal palace in Barcelona
between the Inquisition and the
standing committee of the Estates,
specifying which windows, rooms and
corridors could be used by each); and
IVdeDJ 7/46 (numerous papers from
the 1590s on applicants for minor
offices in the palace). See also IVdeDJ
61/338, Pedro de Hoyo to Philip II
and reply, undated (1567) on making
appointments (‘but do not let anyone
know I am doing this, so that they
will not interrupt me, because I need
peace and a lot of time’).
93. On papal fury at the new court etiquette,
see Mosconi, La nunziatura,
61-5; Hiibner, Sixte-Quint, I, 381-5;
AGS Estado 951/181, Francisco de
Idiaquez to Philip II and reply,
undated [winter 1586—87]; and
Gonzalez Novalin, Historia de la
Iglesia, III.2, 70-1. See also the report
of discontent among Philip’s courtiers
over the new style in BAV UL 1115/
108—9, ‘Aviso’ from Madrid, 10 Jan.
1587; and ASMa AG Spagna 600a,
unfoL, Cavriani to Mantua, 6 Mar.
1587. See also Kamen, Philip, 231.
94. AGS GA 198/98, Antonio de Guevara
to Andres de Alva, 14 June 1587.
Some twenty years before, when the
king’s valet Sebastian de Santoyo fell
ill, he jested that whereas most convalescents
craved water to help their
recovery, he craved ink: Bouza
Alvarez, ‘Cortes festejantes’, 192-3.
95. IVdeDJ 61/19, Pedro de Hoyo to
Philip II and reply, 22 May 1562 (for
314 Notes to pp. 36—^
another similar exchange, see PEG,
VI, 144, Philip II to Granvelle, 7
Sept. 1560); BL Addl 28,350/233,
Philip II to Hoyo, mid-Dec. 1565;
AA 5/69, Philip II to Alba, 7 Aug.
1567 (see p. 122 above); and Addl
28,263/2, holograph transcript by the
king of two letters from Antonio de
Guaras, ii and 19 Apr. 1574 (admittedly
the king proceeded to correct
certain errors made by Guaras; but
this too could have been done with
less effort on his part).
96. BL Addl 28,263/62-3, Philip II to
Mateo Vazquez, 27 Oct. 1576. See
also IVdeDJ 51/49, Philip II to
Vazquez, 30 Aug. 1575: ‘I have been
waiting for the dossier that you have
to send for Juan Vazquez until now,
which is II p.m., and I cannot wait
any longer, because of my eyes and my
head — all the more so because I must
go to church tomorrow for Mass.’
Two more pages of stream-ofconsciousness
followed. On 11 Apr.
1578 he began ‘after 9:30 p.m.’ a
letter to Mateo Vazquez, the last of
several that day, announcing that he
was too busy and tired to transact any
more business - yet in the next halfhour
he covered almost three sides of
octavo paper with some 500 words
(IVdeDJ 51/162, Vazquez to Philip II
and reply, ii Apr. 1578). For another
example of late-night verbal diarrhoea,
from 1565, see Kamen, Philip,
99.
97. AGS Estado 165/24, ‘Lo que Su
Magestad es servido’ (the word was
‘de’ in ‘de detener’); AGS Estado K
1567/46B, ‘Avisos de Londres’;
IVdeDJ 55/XII/40, Philip II to Mateo
Vazquez, 28 Apr. 1589.
98. AGS Estado 137/227, Princess Juana
to Philip II, 14 July 1559, with royal
reply ‘quiero . . . hazer lo que se que
mas me combiene, que es irme sin
andar aprovechandome de parecer de
nadie’; AGRB MD 5480/232,
Granvelle memorandum, 14 Aug.
1579, about the reconciliation of the
Walloon provinces of the Low
Countries {CCG, XII, 567, provides
an incorrect identification and an inaccurate
transcript.)
99. I am grateful to Eliot Cohen, Ronald
Meijers, David van Deusen and
Marjoleine van Doorn-Claassen for
sharing their expertise on this point
with me. See also Barnard, The function
of the executive'. Chandler, Strategy and
structure, 1-51; and Drucker, ‘The
coming of the new organization’ and
The effective executive.
100. On Philip’s admirable reasons for
appointing Medina, see Pierson,
Commander of the Armada, 83—6.
101. On Alba, see CDCV, III, 109, Charles
V’s Instruction to Philip, 4 May 1543:
‘in matters of state and war ... he is
the best man we have in Spain’. On
the commanders he trained, see
Gonzalez de Leon, ‘The road to
Rocroi’, chap. i.
102. AGS Estado 2843/1, ‘Parescer’ of the
council of State, ii Sept. 1577;
HHStA Belgien PA 90/109, Philip II
to Parma, 31 Oct. 1578.
103. On the proposed punishment of Alba,
see IVdeDJ 36/40, ‘Lo que a Su
Magestad ha parecido advertir sobre la
relacion de los excessos que se dize se
han hecho en los Estados de Flandes’
[8-10 Mar. 1574] and BL Addl
28,702/244-74, various ‘relaciones’ of
accusations labelled ‘B’ to ‘F’. The
appropriate response is discussed in
IVdeDJ 45/329, the reports of the
‘Juntas grande y particular’, 15 Mar.
1574; and ibid., 44/57-60, Mateo
Vazquez to Philip II, ii and 15 Apr.
and 14 June 1574. The king’s advisers
recommended banishing Alba from
the Court, but the king demurred:
‘Although making this gesture would
give me great satisfaction, I do not
wish to do it without further advice.’
Later on he did banish Alba’s former
advisers, but for a totally different
reason (see Maltby, Alba, 271-82). In
Parma’s case, likewise, the king eventually
withdrew his support and
ordered his recall, but only when
Parma systematically refused to carry
out orders to intervene in France: see
Parker, Dutch Revolt, 228-30.
Notes to pp. 39-41 315
104. ACA CA 33/1, Philip II to Juana, his
regent in Spain, 8 Sept. 1556 (vetoing
one of her suggestions for the position
of justiciar of Aragon on the grounds
that the man had opposed a recent
piece of government legislation);
BMO, II, 378, Philip II to Parma, 19
Oct. 1586.
105. For Alba, see AA 160/18, ‘Los
agravios’ (a list of Alba’s grievances
since his nomination on 29 Nov.
1566); for Toledo, see Ramos, ‘La
crisis indiana’, 51—61; for Pedro
Menendez, see ASG AS 2415, unfoL,
Sauli to Genoa, 18 July 1574; for Don
Juan, see BPU Favre 28/97—101,
Philip II to duke of Sessa, 27 Dec.
1576.
106. On Requesens’s sad story, see p. 132
above. Don John of Austria insisted on
meeting with the king before moving
from Italy to the Netherlands in 1576,
but he disobeyed Philip’s express
command in order to do so: see GCP,
V, xvi—xix. According to ASMa
AG Spagna 601, unfoL, Cavriano to
Mantua, 2 Mar. 1588, the king
rejected Medina Sidonia’s request to
‘come and kiss his hands’ on his way to
Lisbon.
107. BMO, III, 1964, Bertendona to Philip
II, 15 Feb. 1588. Disagreements continued
throughout the Armada campaign:
see pp. 264-5 above.
108. KML M5P CR 5/82, Philip II to
Medina Sidonia, ii Mar. 1588:
‘Creed que de tal manera considero la
importancia desta jornada, que si yo
no fuera menester tanto aca, para
acudir a lo que para ella y otras
muchas cosas es menester, holgara
mucho de hallarme en ella; y lo hiziera
con gran confian^a que me havia de
suceder muy bien’.
109. Bouza, 114: Philip II to Catalina, 27
Aug. 1586. Philip may have recalled
that the prestige of his father Charles
V had suffered gravely because of his
presence at the failed sieges of Algiers
(1541) and Metz (1552).
no. See for example CDCV, III, 593,
Charles V to Philip II, 2 Apr. 1552
(urgent pleas for money and men
carried by Alba); ibid., IV, 147, same
to same, 7 Dec. 1554 (about letters,
instructions and communications
from Philip brought by Erasso); and
Kervijn de Lettenhove, Relations
politiques, I, 55-9 (Philip’s Instructions
to Ruy G6mez, going to Mary in
England and Charles in Spain, 2 Feb.
1557)-
111. Admittedly Philip entrusted the plan
of 26 July 1586 (pp. 186-7 above) to
the same confidential messenger —
Giovanni Battista Piatti — who had
brought Parma’s invasion scheme to
Court earlier in the year, and Piatti
seems to have received a briefing from
the king and his ministers (AGS
Estado 2218/56, Don Juan de Idiaquez
to Parma, 27 July 1586); but
this seems to have been a rare reversion
to the standard practice of the
1550S.
112. Drucker, The effective executive, 142 (a
brilliant insight). For a couple of practical
examples, see pp. 162-3 and 267
above.
113. See pp. 170 and 180 above. For other
examples of strategic planning, see
CCG, X, 174-8, Granvelle to
Idiaquez, 6 May 1583, discussing
position papers (not included in the
dossier) on the overall strategy of the
Monarchy; and ibid., XI, 617—32,
papers prepared by Don Juan de
Zuniga on the foreign policy problems
facing the Monarchy in June 1584
(pp. 171-2 above).
114. IVdeDJ 56, paquete 6—2, unfoL,
Hernando de Avalos to Vazquez, with
royal apostil, 25 Mar. 1576; ibid. 53/
3/65 and 53/4/169, Philip II to
Vazquez and reply, 8 June 1574 and
12 Sept. 1575. For later examples, see
ibid. 53/5/25 and 55/IX/151-2, ibid.,
10 Feb. 1576 and 4 Nov. 1586.
115. IVdeDJ 53/3/76, Mateo Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 26 July 1574.
116. BL Addl 28,699/103, Philip II to
Mateo Vazquez, 22 Apr. 1577. Juan
Fernandez de Espinosa, the author,
duly arrived ‘with the memorandum
in his hand’ the following day for an
audience: see p. 18 above.
3i6 Notes to pp. 42—^
117. AGS CJH 249, carpetas 16—18
contain numerous Relaciones de sdbado
from 1588, almost all bearing tortured
royal annotations and computations.
For an earlier example of
Philip’s attempts to fathom his
financial problems directly, see REG,
VI, 156—65, a seven-folio holograph
financial statement by Philip II
(apparently based on AGS Estado 139/
294 ‘Relacion de las consignaciones’,
6 Oct. 1560, with long royal comments).
118. GPGP, II, 524—5, Gonzalo Perez to
Philip II and reply, 13 Aug. 1565.
The king’s anxiety on this score continued
to the end of his life: as late
as 1593 he agonized over appointing
the best candidate to be justiciar of
Aragon since ‘it is so important to get
it right’: ACA CA 33/9, consulta of
the council of Aragon {23 May 1593].
119. Kervijn de Lettenhove, Relations
politiques, I, 59, Philip IPs
Instructions to Ruy Gomez, 2 Feb.
1557. In the event Charles refused,
but agreed not to renounce the imperial
title for a while.
120. Cable, Ambassade, 432—3. See also
Fourquevaux, I, 11, letter to Catherine
de Medici (the Infanta’s grandmother),
26 Sept. 1566.
121. AGS Estado and 146/147,
Gonzalo Perez to Philip II and reply,
[24] Mar. and {10} Apr. 1565.
122. IVdeDJ 51/172 and 51, Philip II to
Mateo Vazquez {undated, but 1574}
and 19 July 1575.
123. IVdeDJ 53/3/56 and BZ 144/34,
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 13
May and 10 Dec. 1574.
124. IVdeDJ 44/119, Mateo Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 10 Mar. 1575.
See also BZ 144/61, same to same,
31 May 1575: ‘There are so many
things [to do] that I do not know
how I get through each hour.’
See other examples in Kamen, Philip,
273.
125. See the perceptive remarks on the
impact of stress on policy-making in
Lebow and Stein, We all lost the Cold
War, 331-8 (quotations from p. 331).
See also Holsti, Crisis, escalation, war,
chap, i; Breakwell and Spade,
Pressures facing commanders, 11 and 26
(based on interviews with over 100
commanders and staff officers); and
the case-studies in Part II above.
126. IVdeDJ 55/XII/4, Philip II to the
Junta Grande, 13 Jan. 1589 (arthritis)
and 55/XI/249, Vazquez to Philip II
and reply, 15 Nov. 1588 (stomach
ache); BL Addl 28,700/151 and 155,
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 7 and
9 Feb. 1587 (’flu). One day in 1580 he
reported to his daughters that his
stomach ached after eating too many
melons: Bouza, 50.
127. IVdeDJ 55/IX/155, 93 and 217,
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 8 Nov.
and 7 June 1586, and 17 Oct. 1588.
See an earlier complaint about his
sight failing him at night in Kamen,
Philip, 209. Ironically, his glasses
{antojos) may have come from
England: see CSPSp, II, 674,
Bernardino de Mendoza to Philip II,
14 May 1579, announcing the dispatch
of a pair.
128. PlLAddl 28,357/13, Philip II to Alba,
28 July 1573. Oliveros de Castro and
Subiza Martin, Felipe II, 197, suggest
that the various ailments were related
to chronic malaria; but even so, the
trigger seems to have been psychological
stress.
129. BL Addl. 28,363/220, comment of
Juan Ruiz de Velasco on a letter from
Zayas to Mateo Vazquez, 12 May
1587; BL Addl 28,376/33-4, Andr&
de Prada to Don Juan de Idiaquez, 17
May 1587.
130. BL Addl 28,363/116-17 and 112,
Ruiz de Velasco to Mateo Vazquez, 20
and 30 June 1587 (the latter replying
to a Vazquez note of 17 June); Riba,
El consejo supremo de Aragon, 51, count
of Chinchon to Mateo Vazquez, 19
Sept. 1587.
131. IVdeDJ 38/70, Diego de Espinosa to
Philip II and reply, undated [= spring
1569]. The king continued: ‘Do not
be sad at what I have written, for since
I cannot unburden myself with anyone
but you, I cannot refrain from doing
Notes to pp. 4^—^2 317
so.’ See also pp. 143 and 271 above
and p. 404 n. 5 below.
Distance: Public Enemy
Number i?
1. Van Creveld, Command in war, 264—5.
2. Spengler, Der Untergang des
Abendlandes (1918), and Satow, A
guide to diplomatic practice (1917), both
quoted by Kern, The culture of time and
space, 160 and 275. I have learned a
great deal from Kern’s brilliant study,
especially from Chapter 10, ‘Temporality
of the July Crisis’, and I thank
Robert Tomilson for bringing it to
my attention. On the dramatic impact
of the telegraph on the relations
between government, generals and the
public in wartime, see Dean, ‘ “We
live under a government of men and
morning newspapers’”.
3. BSLE Ms I. III. 30/122V, from the
‘Raggionamento’ of Philip II. See the
perceptive analyses of the problems
posed by distance in early modern
Europe in Braudel, The Mediterranean,
I, 354-94; and Delumeau, Vie
konomique et sociale, I, 23-79.
4. See Devos, ‘La Poste au service des
diplomates espagnols’; and Alcazar
Molina, ‘La polftica postal espanola’
(the contract of 1516 is discussed at
pp. 227-9). See also Allen, Post and
courier service, 91-106; Lunitz,
Diplomatie und Diplomaten, 163-77;
Fagel, De Hispano-Vlaamse Wereld,
310-23; and Brayshay, ‘Royal posthorse
routes’.
5. See Epistolario, I, 647—9 and 654, Alba
to Margaret of Parma, 16 June and 10
July 1567 for the ‘Spanish Road’ courier
chain; and Epistolario, III, 121—3,
Alba to Philip II, 24 May 1572 for the
decision to send duplicates.
6. Carter, Secret diplomacy, 269.
7. Eourquevaux, II, 127—8 and 142,
letter to Charles IX and report attached,
31 Oct. 1569 (see also the account
in Alava, 372, Philip II to Don
Franc& de Alava, 4 Nov. 1569);
Eourquevaux, II, 206-7, letter to
Catherine de Medici, 3 Apr. 1570 (the
courier carried the marriage contract
between Charles IX and Elisabeth of
Austria, negotiated in Madrid and
sent to Paris on 18 Jan.); and
Mulcahy, ‘Two murders’.
8. Fourquevaux, II, 338, letter to Charles
IX, 31 Mar. 1571. For examples of
letters entrusted to Spanish couriers,
see ibid., 172, 206, 241 and so on.
Admittedly Spanish ministers sometimes
entrusted letters to French couriers,
but only when they contained
nothing compromising: see, for
example, Alava, 354 and 380, Philip
II to Alava, 4 July 1569 (announcing
that he was not sending a new cipher
to his ambassador because the package
would be carried by Fourquevaux’s
servant) and 15 Dec. 1569 (stating
that he would not reply to Alava’s
recently received letters ‘because this
will be carried by a courier of
Fourquevaux’).
9. Dona, 298-9, 303—4, 316—18 and
372-5, letters to Venice on 7, 15 and
28 June, and 2 Nov. 1571, about
incoming news; and 234—5,
and 491—2, letters on 14 Mar. and 26
Nov. 1571 and 18 June 1572 (among
many others) about giving letters to
Perez in advance. See also IVdeDJ 60/
335, Antonio Perez to Philip II, 6
June 1571, announcing that at 3 p.m.
he had received news that the Holy
League had been signed on 20 May.
10. Lorenzo Sanz, Comercio de Espana, I,
34; Burkholder and Johnson, Colonial
Latin America, 70—1.
11. Couto, Da Asia: decada X, 17—18, 27-
31 and 150-1; Ruiz Martin, Lettres
marchandes, 401, Simon Ruiz to
Baltasar Suarez, 26 Aug. 1585; AGS
SP 1551/274—81, bishop of Malacca
to Philip II, 31 Dec. 1588.
12. AGNM CRD 11/15-36 and 240-3.
The only other detailed record of letters
received came in 1588 (fos i8iv-
6v), but many of these had been
affected by Drake’s activity and the
Armada, both of which interfered
with the departure of the annual
3i8 Notes to pp. ^2—4
convoys. For examples of ‘naves de
aviso’, both from the Americas announcing
the dispatch of the fleet, and
from Andalusia warning of some hazard,
see Lorenzo Sanz, Comercio de
Espana, I, 37-8; and Andrews, The last
voyage of Drake and Hawkins, 12-19.
13. Data from Paris based in BNP Ms. esp.
132; and from Venice based on Pierre
Sardella’s calculations from the ‘diaries’
kept by Marino Sanudo of Venice
between 1497 and 1532 (which
recorded the date on which each letter
received in Venice was written and the
time it arrived), summarized by
Braudel, The Mediterranean, I, 362-6.
14. GPGP, II, 557: Philip II to Perez, n.d.
[=4 Oct. 1565 }; and Reivindicacion,
416. See another example on p. 123
above, and compare Charles V’s wish,
a generation earlier, that a courier
bearing an important dispatch to
his brother ‘could fly’: Lanz,
Korrespondenz, II, 361, to Ferdinand,
II Jan. 1530.
15. UB Leiden, Hs Pap. 3/4, Alonso de
Laloo to Count Hornes, 20 Sept.
1566, reported the journey of ‘un
correo spanol’ from Brussels to
Segovia in ten days, and of ‘Jacques
correo’ in only nine days. Epistolario,
III, 133—4, Alba to Philip II, 12 June
1572, noted the arrival of another courier
(travelling the other way) in ten
days. In 1633 a courier left Inin on 16
June and arrived in Brussels on the
22nd, ‘230 leagues in 6 days’ — over
150 kilometres a day — which seems to
constitute the early modern overland
record; AGS Estado 2240, unfoL, certificate
of Juan de Arbalayz.
16. Dona, 373, letter to Venice, 2 Nov.
1571. News of the battle on 7 Oct.
arrived in Madrid at 2 p.m. on the
31st: see p. 19 above. Strangely, the
king had to make do with Dona’s
detailed account for almost two
months after this: see BL Addl
28,528/11, Philip II to Don Juan de
Zuniga, 25 Nov. 1571, complaining
that he had only just received the full
story on Lepanto. Dona, 493, letter to
Venice of 18 June 1572.
17. CCG, X, 50, Foncq to Granvelle, 7
Feb. 1583; BL Addl. 35841/146-7V,
Anthony Standen to Jacopo Manucci,
28 May 1588.
18. RAH Ms 9-1-4-A60/125, bishop of
Osma to Granvelle, i Feb. 1557;
Dona, 74-5, letter to Venice of i Sept.
1570; AA 8/45, Philip II to Alba, 8
July 1573, received 19 Aug. (see p.
140 above).
19. For details, see (respectively) Alava,
257, Zayas to Alava, 10 Sept. 1568;
Allen, Post and courier service, 79—80;
Alava, 316-17 and 341-2, Philip II
to Alava, 20 Mar. and 25 June 1569;
Preto, / servizi segreti, 294—7. ^572
the frequency with which couriers
were robbed in France provoked a
formal protest from the Spanish secretary
of state to the French ambassador:
Fourquevaux, II, 420, letter to Charles
IX, 12 Feb. 1572.
20. Woltjer, Friesland in hervormingstijd,
3, Count Aremberg to Margaret of
Parma, 15 Sept. 1566 (‘ceulx de pied
ont meilleur moyen de faire diligence
que les autres’); AGS CJH unfoL,
Gregorio de Guzman, corregidor of
Palencia, to Philip II, 30 May 1566.
21. CSPSp., IV, 637-41 and 644. In the
1640s, when Spain again supported an
Irish rebellion, letters from Spanish
agents in Ireland could take between
three and eight months to reach
Madrid, and the replies could take up
to eleven months to arrive: Ohlmeyer,
‘Ireland independent’, 96.
22. CSPSp, II, 2-3, Diego Guzman de
Silva to Philip II, 10 Jan. 1568
(acknowledging receipt of the king’s
letters of 14—15 Oct. 1567) and vice
versa, 4 Feb. 1568 (Guzman’s letters
of I, 7 and 15 Nov. 1567 only arrived
on 26 Jan.); IVdeDJ 37/65, Don Luis
de Requesens to Don Juan de Zuniga,
28 Aug. 1575; AGS Estado 688/93ff,
Don Guillen de San Clemente to
Philip II, I Aug. to I Dec. 1581
(eight letters). For other examples of
various postal calamities, see ASP CF
108, unfoL, Tomas de Armenteros to
the duke of Parma, 27 Aug. 1564,
reporting that he would have to send
Notes to pp. 34—6 319
letters from Brussels to Italy via Lorraine
because plague afflicted Switzerland;
OOLA KB IV/245V and 261,
Khevenhiiller to Rudolf II, 13 May
and 23 July 1587 lamenting that a
courier carrying letters for him had
been imprisoned in France, so that he
lacked news of the imperial Court;
and ASG AS 2418/3/333, Spinola and
Doria to the Doge and Senate, i May
1587, also complaining that three
couriers carrying letters from Madrid
to Genoa had been robbed in France.
2 3. AGNM CRD XLVII/15 3V-4V, Philip
II to Audiencia, 4 July 1570, copy,
expedience 256; BMO, II, 34, Parma
to Philip II, 28 Feb. 1586. See the
excellent study of MacKay, ‘To obey
and comply’, and pp. 151-2 and 157-
63 above on ‘sub-imperial’ agendas in
the Spanish Monarchy.
24. For example, on 18 Nov. 1574
Requesens sent a letter to Philip II in
triplicate, one via the Spanish Road
and two via the Spanish ambassador in
Paris, who sent one overland by the
normal post route and the other to
Nantes and thence by sea to Spain.
The original (sent overland) arrived at
Court on 18 Dec. (exactly one month
later), the duplicate (sent via Nantes)
on 10 Jan., the triplicate (sent by
Italy) on 20 Jan.; see AGS Estado
560/12, endorsement. Requesens
explained his system to the king in a
letter of 10 Sept. 1575 {Estado 564/
108). Details such as these are elusive
because Philip normally ordered
duplicates to be destroyed once the
original arrived: BZ 144/17, Vazquez
to Philip II and reply, 7 Oct. 1574
(‘This dossier from Requesens came by
way of Italy. I believe it is a duplicate:
if it is, you can burn it’). Merchants
also routinely sent duplicates: see
p. 57 above.
2 5. Newsletters compiled by merchants or
magistrates in the leading European
cities carried items relayed from other
centres: see BAV UL 1056, ‘Awisi
dell’anno 1588’ for an excellent
collection.
26. Epistolario, III, 99-101, Alba to Don
Antonio de Toledo, 27 Apr. 1572 (‘Los
negocios de aquf estan en muchos
peores terminos de lo que escribo a Su
Magestad’); AGS Estado 551/27,
Joachim Hopperus, French language
secretary at Court, to Philip II, 22
Apr. 1572, enclosing several letters
about the loss of Brill; Estado 553/95
and 99, Philip II to Alba, 30 Apr.
1572, minute (royal apostil noting
that he had found out from Hopperus),
and 17 May 1572, minute (saying that
‘we heard about Lumey’s descent before
your letters arrived’); Epistolario,
III, 91 and 133, Alba to Philip II, 26
Apr. 1572, with news of the Brill, and
12 June 1572, apologizing for his
silence; and pp. 124—6 above. For
another powerful viceroy striving
unsuccessfully to control the flow of
information to his master, see Merritt,
‘Power and communication’, 126—7
(Strafford in Ireland in the 1630s).
27. AGNM Mercedes V/215-215V, decree
of Viceroy Luis de Velasco, 21 Jan.
1561.
28. See Gumming, ‘The Parreus map’; and
(for the 1580s), pp. 201 and 221-3
above. Although we lack a study of
Philip IPs diplomatic corps, see the
useful overview in Carter, ‘The ambassadors
of early modern Europe’; and
also the case-studies of Levin, ‘A
Spanish eye on Italy’; Fernandez
Alvarez, Tres embajadores', and Jensen,
Diplomacy and dogmatism.
29. Co.Do.In., XCVIII, 483, Philip II to
count of Luna, 8 Aug. 1563; Co.Do.
In., XXXII, 189-497: between i July
and 30 Aug. 1580 Alba wrote no
fewer than seventy-two letters to
Philip II; BMO, III, 1868—69, report
of Santa Cruz to the count of Fuentes,
c. 4 Feb. 1588. The papal nuncio
believed that Santa Cruz’s sources
were superior to the king’s, mainly
received from Mendoza in Paris:
English affairs ‘are known earlier and
better in Portugal than here [Madrid]’
(ASV NS 32/82, Lodi to Rusticucci, 8
Mar. 1586). Philip agreed: on one occasion
he suggested sending Mendoza
a copy of the information gathered by
320 Notes to pp. ^6—8
Santa Cruz’s agents: BMO, II, 474,
Philip II to Mendoza, 17 Dec. 1586,
minute with royal apostil.
30. Plaisant, Aspetti e problemi, 103,
Instruction to the count of Lodosa, 21
Nov. 1595; Alava, 370, ZacySiS to
Alava, 3 Sept. 1569 (asking to receive
copies not only of the ambassador’s
missives to other ministers but also
a copy, or at least a summary, of the
letter to which he replied). For the
critical importance of ‘sharing information’
in any large enterprise, see
Drucker, ‘The coming of the new
organization’, 49; Destler, Presidents,
52—82; and Fukuyama and Shulsky,
The ‘virtual corporation’, 29.
31. See Co.Do.In., CII, 35n for evidence
that Zuniga drafted his brother’s letters,
which Requesens merely copied
out and sent. For the frequency of
their correspondence, see Nueva
Co.Do.ln, V, 290—2, Requesens to
Zuniga, 28 Sept. 1574, and passim.
32. RAH Ms 9—I—4—A60, Requesens to
Granvelle, 3 June 1557; Granvelle’s
reply of 15 Nov. reproduced in Bouza
Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles, F, 4; and
Martmez Millan, ‘Un curioso
manuscrito’. On ‘factions’ at Court,
see p. 25 above.
33. Alba’s Academy has been virtually
forgotten, but see the fascinating
sketch by Bouza Alvarez, ‘Corte es
decepcion’, 459—61, with numerous
quotations from the witty and highly
indiscreet correspondence of Don
Juan de Silva with his fellow
‘academicians’.
34. Zuniga’s incoming letters from other
ministers between 1571 and 1583
(when he returned to Spain) take up
twenty-nine boxes in BZ alone {cajas
62-92, though not box 85), with
more in BPU: see the inventory in
Bouza Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles, IF.
AGS Estado 1539—40 contains the
incoming correspondence of Cristobal
de Salazar in Venice. For examples of
‘inter-office correspondence’ among
Philip IPs ministers in Madrid, see
Bouza Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles, F,
8-9.
35. Individual and total costs from AGS
Estado 146/189 ‘Lo que se a gastado en
los correos’; and Le Glay and Finot,
Inventaire sommaire. . . Nord, V, 322
(£7,543 for maintaining the couriet
service in Lorraine and Franche-Comte
in 1588-90). See the heavy expenditure
on correos in the accounts of Don
Luis de Requesens, ambassador in
Rome 1563-68: IVdeDJ 22/2/D21,
‘Relacion de gastos’, and the data in
Jensen, Diplomacy and dogmatism, 128—
9; Allen, Post and courier service, 50—1;
and Fernandez Alvarez, Felipe II,
102-4.
36. See the selections of Ruiz’s cottespondence
published by Gentil da
Silva, Strategie des affaires', Vazquez de
Prada, Lettres marchandes', Ruiz Martin,
Lettres marchandes', and the general
remarks of Lorenzo Sanz, Comercio de
Espana, 26—42.
37. For the theory, see Encinas, II, 313,
Philip II to the viceroy of Peru, 14
Sept. 1592; fot the practice, see
IVdeDJ 60/307, Antonio Perez to
Philip II and reply, undated, concerning
a letter from the duke of Alba
to Don Antonio de Toledo [1572-
73}; ibid., 51/17, Philip II to
Vazquez, 17 July 1573, concerning
letters about the Netherlands; and
ibid., 21/716, royal apostil on Fray
Antonio de San Pablo to Vazquez, 17
Nov. 1581. For other examples, see
Gonzalez de Amezua, Isabella de
Valois, II, i33n, Philip’s order to have
a secret copy made of a letter written
to his wife by her mother; IVdeDJ 60/
259, Antonio Perez to Philip II, undated
(but 1566-67), discussing letters
written by Baton Montigny,
resident at Court, which had been
opened ‘on Your Majesty’s otders’;
and AGS Estado 149/176-7, letters
written by the marquis of Berghes and
his secretary, also at the Spanish
Court, in Mar. 1567, intercepted and
read by Philip IFs ministers. Of course
Philip II was not alone in this ptactice:
Preto, / servizi segreti, 294—7,
recotds numerous examples of Italian
governments opening other people’s
Notes to pp. ^8—64 321
mail; while Potter, Secret rites, 39—40,
and Firth, ‘Thurloe and the Post Office’,
document the opening and copying
of all diplomatic and a selection of
other mail entering and leaving London
in the 1640s and 1650s.
38. Longlee, 390-401: the originals and
decrypts. Alfred Mousset, editor of the
volume, found Longlee’s cipher key
and made his own transcript of the
documents, revealing that the Spanish
codebreaker (Luis Valle de la Cerda)
had made many mistakes (see pp.
1-li).
39. Phelan, The millenarial kingdom, 78.
40. BL Eg. 1506/21—2, Quiroga to Philip
11 and reply, 16 July 1574 (‘Yo lo vi
por mis ojos’). For a striking feat of
memory — when the king managed to
identify (and provide the ‘full bibliographic
record’ for!) one book missing
from a consignment of 47 3 sent in
1566 to the Escorial - see Antolm, ‘La
libreria de Felipe IF, 480.
41. AGNM CRD 11/184 (expediente
337), Philip II to the viceroy and
Audiencia of New Spain, 29 June
1588; APO, III, 826, Philip II (signed
by his son) to Viceroy Dom Francisco
da Gama, 26 Jan. 1598.
42. CCG, I, 469—74, Granvelle to Philip
II, 15 Sept. 1566, with appreciative
comments by the king. Four years
later the duke of Alba likewise evaluated
from his own experience the
various possible itineraries for the
journey of Philip’s bride, Anna, from
Vienna to Spain: Epistolario, II, 423-4,
Alba to Philip II, 15 Sept. 1570.
43. See Maltby, Alba, 195, and pp. 149
and 158 above. See also the council of
State’s debate on the issue of a General
Pardon for the Dutch rebels in 1574,
which included a detailed discussion
of what had happened after the
Comuneros rising in Castile, fifty-two
years before: AGS Estado 561/25,
consulta of 24 Feb. 1574. See also
ibid., 561/77, Requesens to Philip II,
12 May 1574, and the document cited
in Bouza Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles, F,
6. In 1569 Philip recalled that the
rivalry between Catherine de Medici
and the Cardinal of Lorraine closely
resembled her rivalry with the cardinal’s
father in 1546—47: Alava, 342,
Philip II to Alava, 25 June 1569. A
decade later he even discussed with
Mateo Vazquez an incident that he
thought might have happened when
he was in his mother’s womb! (Muro,
Vida, appendix 43 and facsimile). See
other examples at pp. 116 and 138
above.
44. See the definitive edition of Kagan,
Spanish cities of the Golden Age.
45. Guevara, Comentarios de la pintura,
219—21. See also Kagan, Spanish cities,
44-5-
46. BSLE, Ms K.I.i: each map measures
approximately 19 by 28 inches. The
calculation of i: 430,000 comes from
Vazquez Maure, ‘Cartograffa de la
peninsula’, 62. For a discussion of how
the maps were made, see Parker,
‘Maps and ministers’, 130-4. That
article also discusses two similar
projects initiated slightly earlier by
Philip II for the Netherlands: a series
of cityscapes by Jacques van Deventer
and a corpus of topographical maps by
Christophe’s Grooten. In 1566 Philip
also ordered ‘a map and description’
of Naples to be sent to him, because
‘every day things crop up’ that can
only be understood and dealt with
effectively if ‘[we] know the distances
between the places of that kingdom,
and its rivers and boundaries’ (BCR
Ms 2174/43-V, Philip II to viceroy of
Naples, I Feb. 1566; see also a similar
order at fo. 132-3, ii Mar. 1575).
47. See details in Fernandez Alvarez,
Felipe II, 23, and Kagan, Spanish
Cities, 47. BNM Ms 5589/64:
‘Ynterrogatorio,’ mentions ‘13 or 14
volumes’ of ‘relaciones’; AGS Estado
157/104, ‘Instruction and memotandum
for the relations to be made
and sent to His Majesty for the
description and history of the communities
of Spain’; and ibid., 157/103,
Philip II to the corregidor of Toledo,
Oct. 1575, minute, explaining that ‘if
we wete to send a person to compile
the descriptions required, it could
322 Notes to pp. 63—6
not be done with the speed that we
desire’.
48. See Bouza Alvarez, ‘Monarchie en
lettres d’imprimerie’, 213.
49. For details, see Benson, ‘The ill-fated
works of Francisco Hernandez’; Lopez
Pinero, Ciencias y tecnica, 217-19;
Goodman, Power and penury, 65-72;
and Gonzalez Garcia, Archive General
de Indias, 178—9. See also Bouza
Alvarez, Del escrihano a la biblioteca,
90-100, for an overview of the king’s
various surveys; Miranda, Espana y
Nueva Espana, 20-1, 56—9 and 69-71,
for a useful list of royal subsidies to
scientists and other scholars; and
Vicente Moroto and Esteban Pinero,
Aspectos de la ciencia aplicada, 399—406,
on Lopez de Velasco.
50. Lopez de Velasco, Geografta y
descripcion\ and idem, Demarcacion. The
original of the latter work, with beautiful
hand-coloured maps, may be
studied in the John Carter Brown
Library, Providence, RI, Cod. Span. 7.
(I thank John Headley for bringing it
to my attention.) In a volume based on
Velasco, in 1601 Antonio de Herrera y
Tordesillas’s Descripcion de las Indias
occidentales explicitly recognized that
the area between the Caribbean and
the Philippines represented ‘a hemisphere
and half of the world, with 180
degrees’ (see the erudite discussion of
these works in Headley, ‘Spain’s Asian
presence’, 629-33).
51. See the richly documented studies
of Cline, ‘The Relaciones geograficas'\
Edwards, ‘Mapping by geographical
positions’; and, most recently, Mundy,
The mapping of New Spain, and Sacchi,
Mappe del nuovo mondo.
52. See Vicente Maroto and Esteban
Pinero, Aspectos de la ciencia aplicada,
81, 403-6 and 437-43; and AGI
Mapas y pianos, Mexico 34, ‘Juizio
astrologico del eclypse de la luna que
acontecio en 17 de noviembre, aho
1584’. See also Lamb, ‘The Spanish
cosmographic juntas’, 60 (although
she dates the eclipse ‘October
1584’). Goodman, Power and penury,
67, reports that the observations were
also coordinated with colleagues in
China.
53. See AGNM CRD II/22, expedience
62, Philip II to viceroy of New Spain,
12 Mar. 1583 (asking about
Dominguez’s maps); Goodman, Power
and penury, 82 n. 12 (the eclipse ended
at 7.31 p.m., according to Jaume
Juan’s ‘clock with wheels’, but at 7.22
according to the observed position of a
fixed star, and at 7.20 according to the
observed elevation of the moon).
54. UB Leiden Hs Pap. 3/3 Alonso de
Laloo to Count Hornes, 31 Aug.
1566.
5 5. Gordon, Power!knowledge, 5 2, an i nterview
with Foucault in 1975; CCG, IV,
558, Granvelle to Morillon, ii May
1573, quoting Don Pedro de Toledo,
viceroy of Naples 1532-53.
56. De Reiffenberg, Histoire, 413, complaint
by the knights of the Golden
Fleece, 1546 (the knights said exactly
the same about Charles V: see pp.
415-16); BPM Ms II-2291, unfoL,
Gonzalo Perez to Granvelle, 16 Apr.
1560; Berwick y Alba, Discurso, 75,
Perez to Requesens, 1565; and p. 120
above.
57. See Diaz-Plaja, La historia de Espana,
603, quoting Requesens in 1571;
IVdeDJ 68/231—2, Requesens to the
marquis of Los Velez, July 1575;
Berwick y Alba, Discurso, 75,
Requesens to Zuniga, 1575. When
Cardinal Granvelle, president of the
council of Italy, likewise complained
in 1582 that he had received no
replies from the king (then in Portugal)
to his various letters ‘for
months’ a minister at Court
unhelpfully replied that ‘it must be
because he is so busy’: BMB Ms
Granvelle 32/41-2, Idiaquez to
Granvelle, 26 Feb. 1582.
58. Laubespine, 562, memoire of 26 Sept.
1560 (see also an earlier complaint
in Gachard, Bibliotheque Nationale a
Paris, II, 119); Fourquevaux, II, 338,
letter to Charles IX, 31 Mar. 1571 (see
also earlier complaints ibid., 92 and
251); and Binchy, ‘An Irish ambassador’,
371, quoting the cardinal of
323
Como to Nuncio Ormanetto, 2 July
1577-
59. See AGRB Audience 239/123, listing
the dispatches of 31 Aug. 1566; and
(for example) BMO III, 344—58,
twenty-two letters on Armada business
dispatched on 15 May 1587. See
also the figures on p. 28 above.
60. On Simancas and Barcelona, see
Kamen, Philip, 238-9; on Rome, see
Garcia Hernan, ‘La iglesia de Santiago’,
307—14. Copies of Philip’s
various orders creating the post of
archivist at Simancas, and requiring
the heirs of former ministers to deposit
state papers there, may be found
in AGPM Cedulas reales I/i—2, orders
dated 5 May 1545 to 4 Aug. 1555.
For later examples of Philip sending
material to Simancas see IVdeDJ 60/
321, Antonio Perez to Philip II and
reply, undated (but late 1566: ‘see
if you or Gonzalo Perez have any
original documents which it would be
good to send to Simancas’); AMAE
MDFD 237/28, Certificate by Diego
de Ayala, archivist of Simancas, 19
Mar. 1581 (acknowledging receipt of
the original affidavit by the governors
of Portugal recognizing Philip of
Spain as their lawful sovereign); and
Bouza Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles, F, 8.
In 1556 Alba created a government
archive in Naples too: see Maltby,
Alba, 98.
61. CCG, XI, 272, Granvelle to Margaret
of Parma, 21 Sept. 1584; ASV NS 19/
192, Novara to Rusticucci, 3 May
1587 (the nuncio noted that the pope
had already reprimanded Philip once
for this, and asked that he should do
so again); BCR Ms 2417/39, Don
Juan de Silva, count of Portalegre, to
Esteban de Ibarra, 13 Aug. 1589.
(Bouza Alvarez, ‘La majestad de Felipe
IF, 64—5, cites this document at
length from another copy dated 1597;
I have used the autograph original
with some corrections in Silva’s own
hand.)
62. On Granvelle, see van Durme,
Cardenal Granvela\ on Silva, see Bouza
Alvarez, ‘Corte es decepcion’.
IVdeDJ 21/740, notes by Philip and
Mateo Vazquez on a letter from the
general of the Jeronimites, 12 Sept.
1589; and ibid., 21/374, Jeronimo
Gassol to Philip II and reply, 8 July
1591. The king’s use of ‘Fabius’ was
noted by Gachard, ‘Notice de la
collection’.
64. BZ 14 3/111, Mateo Vazquez to Philip
II and reply, 28 June 1588, about a
letter from the duke of Infantado
(Vazquez first brought the duke’s
letter to Philip’s attention on 14 June,
but the king replied that ‘I dare not
read papers as long as this just now’:
BZ 143/88); IVdeDJ 55/XI/153,
same to same, 10 Aug. 1588. Cf the
observation of Drucker, The effective
executive, 11: the executive always has
to deal with ‘matters of importance to
someone else’.
65. Neustadt, Presidential power, 130—i.
See also Sorensen, Decision-making in
the White House, 32: ‘Under any president,
life in the White House is a
series of deadlines’.
66. AGI Indiferente General 738/82, royal
apostil on a consulta of 5 July 1568.
The unfortunate Legazpi had been dispatched
entirely without maps, being
instructed to get hold of Portuguese
charts whenever he could, ‘even by
buying them’, in order to find out
where he was going (see Quirino, Philippine
cartography, x). The king’s command
became part of the Ordinances
for the government of the Americas
issued in 1571, which ordered the
council of the Indies to keep all maps
in its archive (Gonzalez Garcia,
Archivo General de Indias, 180).
67. Quotations from BZ 144/39, Mateo
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 28
Dec. 1574 (Vazquez, for his part, had
lost the copies of Philip’s instructions
to his sister Juana in 1554); Riba,
179, Philip II to Vazquez, undated
but 1578; and Rodriguez de Diego
and Alvarez Pinedo, Los Archivos de
Simancas,siy (reproducing the king’s
anguished holograph note of July
1581). For other examples of the king
losing things see AGPM Cedulas reales
Notes to pp. 66—9
63-
324 Notes to pp. 6^—j3
2/46, letter to Luis de Vega, 2 Mar.
1558 (‘We have lost your last letter,
please send a copy’); IVdeDJ 60/321,
Antonio Perez to Philip II, undated
(but late 1566: hunting for a missing
letter mentioned by Granvelle); Bouza
Alvarez, ‘Leer en palacio’, 40 (a misplaced
book); and BZ 144/31, Philip
II to Vazquez, 25 Nov. 1574 (losing a
consulta).
68. Groen van Prinsterer, Archives, ist
series I, 426, Chantonnay, Spanish
ambassador in Vienna, to Granvelle
(his brother), 6 Oct. 1565; AGS Estado
527/5, Philip II to Gonzalo Perez [24
Mar. 1565L See also pp. 119-20
above.
69. Schelling, Arms and influence, 227;
Barnard, The function of the executive,
194.
70. AGNM Alercgi^j V/248—9V, Licence of
Viceroy Velasco to Francisco de
Ibarra, 2 Jan. 1561, rehearsing Philip
IPs order of 29 Dec. 1557; and
AGNM CRD ibis/20—I, cedulas of
II Sept. 1569 and 13 June 1571. For
the ‘perverse interlock’ between
greater certainty at the top and less at
the bottom in any chain of command,
and vice versa, see van Creveld, Command
in war, 274.
71. BPU Favre 28/83-101 v, Philip II to
Sessa, 27 Dec. 1576 — the holograph
postscript qualification appears on fo.
95. For other examples of delegating
responsibility for major policy choices
see pp. 122 and 137 above (whether or
not to delay arresting rebels in 1567
or to flood Holland in 1574); and
IVdeDJ 60/127, Antonio Perez to
Philip II and reply, 10 May 1578
(alternative instructions given to Juan
de Marliano for truce talks with the
Turks, allowing him to choose the
most appropriate set upon reaching
his destination).
72. AGS Estado K 1448/197, Philip II to
Bernardino de Mendoza, 28 July 1588
(‘pues agora es el tiempo de avisarme
de todo por momentos’).
73. BMO, III, 1274, Philip II to Santa
Cruz, 21 Oct. 1587: ‘Creedme, como a
quien tiene entera noticia del estado
en que se hallan al presente las cosas en
todas partes’.
74. AGS Estado 165/146, Philip II to
Medina Sidonia, 14 Aug. 1588; and
Estado 2219/91, Notes by Idiaquez on
15 Sept. 1588. See also Estado 146/
144 and 2219/77, Philip II to Medina
Sidonia and Parma, 7 Aug. 1588 (the
day of the fireships’ attack off Calais)
exhorting both commanders to follow
the strategy the king had devised. See
also pp. 265 and 267 above.
75. GPGP, II, 524-5, Gonzalo Perez to
Philip II and reply, 13 Aug. 1565 (see
also other royal expressions of concern
that ‘we get it right’ at pp. 41 and 316
n. 118 above); Dona, 340, letter to
Venice, i Aug. 1571; FD, II, 221-2,
Medina Sidonia to Philip II, 30 July
1588.
76. KML, ‘Instructions’ of Elizabeth to
Howard, 20 Dec. 1587 OS, original
(admittedly she then added: ‘Of all
your doings and proceedings in the
said service, and such intelligences as
you shall receave, we require you to
advertise us from tyme to tyme’; but
that too contrasted with Philip IPs
frantic demands for instant transmission
of all news: see, for example, note
72 above). Hunt HA 30881/87V-8,
Lord Huntingdon to Privy Council,
23 June 1588 OS, minute.
77. Watts, ‘Friction in future war’, 91;
and Jablonsky, The owl of Minerva, 33-
6. Watts (75—7) notes the interesting
parallel between his strategic model
and Friedrich von Hayek’s observation
that modern economies also exceed
the grasp of any individual mind.
78. Exodus, 18: 13-23 (quoting from the
New Jerusalem Bible [New York,
1985}, 103—4). Figures on the July
crisis calculated by Holsti, Crisis, escalation,
war, 81-5 (Holsti used only
published papers in his calculations,
and drew attention to the fact that
many more documents from both
Vienna and Berlin have been destroyed.
See also the data on July 1914
presented by Lebow, Between peace and
war, 119-47. By contrast, in the
1980s, the British prime minister’s
Notes to pp. 73—80 325
office received between 4,000 and
7,000 letters per week: Thatcher,
Downing Street years, 19.
79. Guilmartin, A very short war, 157.
Guilmartin (involved at Koh Tan and
later an outstanding military historian)
views ‘information saturation’ as
the principal problem in modern warfare:
see ibid., 32-3, 109-10 and
157-9-
80. See, for example, Elizabeth Tudor’s
failure, almost until the last moment,
to realize that Spain really did intend
to invade and conquer her realm: p.
227 above.
81. Thus, once they had decided to invade
England, Philip II and his ministers in
1586-88 tended to see the Armada as
the solution to all of their problems:
see chap. 6 above.
82. This section draws heavily on Jervis,
Perception and misperception, 117—202;
Lebow, Between peace and war, 101-19;
and Holsti, Crisis, escalation, war,
chaps 1, 4 and 8 (see some spectacular
examples of motivated bias at pp.
206-10).
83. BPU Eavre 30/73V, Philip II to Don
Luis de Requesens, 20 Oct. 1573,
copy of holograph original: ‘Spero en
Dios . . . que os dara mucha salud y
vida, pues se empleara en su servicio y
en el mio, que es lo mismo’.
3 ‘With God on Our Side’
1. Plaisant, Aspetti e problemi, iii,
Don Mendo Rodriguez de Ledesma to
Philip III, 14 Sept. 1600; Fernandez
Alvarez, ‘Las instrucciones poKticas’,
175, Francisco de Erasso to Philip II
and reply, 20 Eeb. 1559; BZ 144/39,
Mateo Vazquez to Philip II and reply,
28 Dec. 1574.
2. See the full text in CDCV, II, 569—
601. The emperor had provided
political advice for his son before —
in 1539 (ibid., 32-43) and 1543
(ibid., 85—118); but it lacked the
comprehensive quality of the 1548
‘Instructions’, composed when the
emperor stood at the height of his
success. Eernandez Alvarez (ibid.,
569) is surely right to detect the
influence of Nicholas Perrenot de
Granvelle in this remarkable document.
See also Beinert, ‘El testamento
politico de Carlos V’; and Fernandez
Alvarez, ‘Las instrucciones politicas’.
3. CDCV, II, 572-3.
4. Ibid., 575. Charles V had perceived
himself to be surrounded by ‘envy’
since at least 1528: see Rassow, Die
Kaiser-Idee Karls V, 20.
5. AGS SP 2604, unfoL, Margaret of
Parma to Philip II, 13 Aug. 1564,
about Ferdinand’s death, bears a royal
apostil about ‘the special affection that
I held for His Majesty’. See in general
Fichtner, Ferdinand I, 220-35
259, and the letters between the two
monarchs published in Co.Do.In., II,
419—592, many concerned with the
correct religious policy to be pursued.
6. IVdeDJ 55/IX/97—8, Mateo Vazquez
to Philip II and reply, 17 June 1586.
7. On the Augsburg family compact,
see Fichtner, Ferdinand I, 167-8 and
175—7; Rodrfguez-Salgado, Changing
face, 33—40; and Liitz, Christianitas
Afflicta, 81-7.
8. Charles made Philip his ‘Vicarius
generalis imperii’ in Jan. 1556, but
Ferdinand refused to follow suit
when he became emperor: Co.Do.In.,
XCVIII, 24-8, Ferdinand to Aquila,
Philip’s ambassador, 22 July 1558.
Philip tried again in 1562 to persuade
Ferdinand to concede the title, but
without success: see the king’s correspondence
with the count of Luna,
his ambassador at the imperial Court,
ibid., 293-8 and 309-10. See also
Lutz, Christianitas Afflicta, 322-3 and
408-23.
9. Quotations from Firpo, Relazioni, III,
373-4, Cauallier to the Doge and
Senate, 22 July 1564; and HHStA
Spanien Varia fasz. ib/n/2v, ‘Aviso’ of
23 Nov. 1564.
10. Fourquevaux, II, 141—7, Fourquevaux’s
account of the negotiations with
Philip’s ministers and ‘don Dietrichstein’,
the imperial ambassador in
326 Notes to pp. 80—2
Madrid, Aug.-Nov. 1569; Serrano,
III, 253, Don Juan de Zuniga to Philip
II, 7 Mar. 1570. See also Philip’s firm
but affectionate letters to Maximilian
exalting their ‘union and brotherhood’:
for example Co.Do.In, CIII, 432, letter
of 5 Feb. 1570.
11. See Rill, ‘Reichsvikar und Kommissar’.
Maximilian’s first priority, of
course, was to maintain the peace of
the Holy Roman Empire and to minimize
the risk that conflict elsewhere
might polarize opinions in Germany,
which explains his efforts to maintain
peace in Italy, France, the Baltic and
the Netherlands: see Lanzinner,
Friedenssicherung, and Luttenberger,
Kurfursten, Kaiser und Reich — I thank
Mark Choate and Jason Lavery for
these references. A modern study of
relations between Philip II and the
Austrian Habsburgs is much needed,
though see the important monograph
of Edelmayer, Maximilian II., Philipp
II., und Reichsitalien.
12. CDCV, II, 575-7- Interestingly,
Charles’s predecessor, Ferdinand of
Aragon, had advised him in 1516 that
an alliance with the papacy would
form the best guarantee of Spanish
dominance in Italy: see Ferdinand’s
‘political testament’ printed in
Doussinague, Polttica internacional,
675-81.
13. Co.Do.In., II, 430-1, Philip II to
Ferdinand, 20 Nov. 1556; the king
went on to note with satisfaction that
God had punished the pope for his
‘unjustified action’ by allowing
Spanish forces to advance ‘almost to
the gates of Rome’. See also Dandelet,
‘Roma hispanica’, 71—2, and
Fernandez Alvarez, Felipe II, 764—5.
14. Details from Dandelet, ‘Roma hispanica’,
82, 109 and 114. Pensions to
the cardinals exceeded 30,000 ducats
in most years: see ibid., 83, 113—14,
131 and 135. The 1591 total comes
from Garcia Hernan, ‘La curia
romana’, 641.
15. See Dandelet, ‘Roma hispanica’, 118-
22, on the use of troops and grain to
influence the outcome of elections in
1590—92; Lynch, ‘Philip II and the
Papacy’, for a useful survey; Garcia
Hernan, ‘La curia romana’, for an
important pontificate; and Borromeo,
‘Espana y el problema de la eleccion
papal de 1592’, for a case study from
late in the reign.
16. BCR Ms 2174/76V-7, Philip to
Ambassador Zuniga, 17 July 1569.
See also Philip’s complaints on p. 7
above.
17. CDCV, II, 577-9- The emperor
discussed rwo other states, but their
circumstances soon changed dramatically:
the republic of Siena, which
Charles hoped would prove loyal, declared
against him in 1552 and was
invaded, occupied and finally ceded to
the duke of Florence; while the duchy
of Parma, at loggerheads with the
Habsburgs in 1548, shortly afterwards
became one of their most loyal
allies. I thank Mark Choate, Giuseppe
Galasso, Michael Levin, Giovanni
Muto and Mario Rizzo for valuable
suggestions and references concerning
the relations between Spain and Italy.
On the system, see Musi, Nel sistema
imperiale; Rivero Rodriguez, ‘Felipe
IF; and (later on), Storrs, ‘The Army of
Lombardy’.
18. AGS Estado 560/36, Requesens to
Philip II, 7 Nov. 1574, quoting with
approval Ferrante Gonzaga, governor
of Milan and an intimate of Charles V.
19. Serrano, II, 42, Philip II to Requesens,
Spanish ambassador in Rome, 16 Feb.
1567. For another example, see Alava,
336, Zayas to Alava, 16 May 1569.
20. See Doria, ‘Un quadrennio critico,
1575-78’ (see p. 379, for estimates
of investment in Philip IPs loans);
Bitossi, II governo dei magnifici, 46-61
(for the ‘civil war’ of 1575-76); and
Emmanuelli, Genes et I’Espagne dans la
Guerre de Corse.
21. Von Aretin, ‘Die Lehensordnungen in
Italien im 16. und 17. Jahrhundert’,
57-9-
22. For Savoy’s rewards, see AGS Estado
1270/123, Terranova to Philip II, 25
Nov. 1592, and Plaisant, Aspetti e
problemi, 100—2. Quotation from AGS
Notes to pp. 82—s
Estado 1249/122, Juan Manrique to
Antonio Perez, 19 May 1578. For the
subsidy of 12,000 ducats (raised
to 15,000 in 1600) paid to the
duke of Urbino, see Cano de
GardoquI, ‘Espana y los estados
italianos independientes’, 526 and
537. Plaisant, Aspetti e problemi, 116—
17, prints the text of an agreement to
place a state (Modena) under Spanish
protection in 1600.
23. Spanish service, however, did not
make most Italian princes rich: Parma
spent almost 50,000 ducats a year of
his own in the Netherlands, and ended
his fourteen-year term as governorgeneral
there with debts of almost
800,000 ducats (more than twice his
duchies’ total revenues): see Romani,
‘Finanza pubblica e potere politico’,
27 and 38. On Colonna, see Rivero
Rodriguez, ‘El servicio a dos cortes’.
24. For the use of the ‘Tuson’ as a reward,
see ASMa AG 583/310 and 334,
Philip II to the new duke of Mantua,
19 Mar. and 7 Nov. 1588. In the same
year, having received an interest-free
loan of 300,000 crowns towards the
cost of the Spanish Armada, Philip
ordered all disputes between Milan
and Mantua to be settled in the duke’s
favour: see ibid., fos 304 and 314,
Philip II to the governor of Lombardy,
24 Feb. and 30 Mar. 1588; and AG
601, unfoL, Aqui to Mantua, 14 Mar.
1588.
25. Rizzo, ‘Poteri, interessi e conflitti
geopolitici nei territori della
Lunigiana’, quoting a letter from the
marquis of Ayamonte, governor of
Milan, in 1577. Fernand Braudel
coined the phrase ‘pax hispanica’ to
describe Philip IPs control of Italy: see
his chapter ‘L’ltalia fuori d’ltalia’ in
Einaudi, Storia d’ltalia, II, 2156.
26. Even the chief cipher clerk of the pope
was in Spanish pay during 1580
(Philippson, Ein Ministerium unter
Philipp II, 56); and so were some
of Gregory XIII’s guards (Dandelet,
‘Roma hispanica’, 108). On Spain’s
occasional use of assassins (for example
against the lord of Piombino in 1589),
see Angiolini, ‘Diplomazie e politica’,
452 n. 73.
27. ASV LP 41/96, Philip II to Gregory
XIII, 7 Mar. 1584. See also a similar
pleas, ibid., 46/65—6, Philip II to
Sixtus V, 23 Dec. 1588. For an
example of mutually hostile allies,
consider the Gonzaga and the Savoia,
both of whom coveted the marquisate
of Monferrat.
28. Serrano, II, 447-9 (Philip II to
Zuniga, 19-20 Aug. 1568); ibid.,
II, 459-61, III, 89-91 and 239-41
(Zuniga to Philip II, 17 Sept. 1568,
13 June 1569 and 28 Feb. 1570);
CCG, XI, 118, Granvelle to Don Juan
de Idiaquez, 19 Aug. 1584. In the
latter case, Spain supported Lucca: see
ASL Ofpzio sulk differenze dei confini,
269, unfoL, Ambassador Portico to
Lucca, 31 May and 26 July 1586
(enclosing copies of relevant letters
from Idiaquez and Granvelle). For two
further examples of Spanish arbitrarion,
see CCG, XI, 247-8, Granvelle
to Idiaquez, 19 Sept. 1584 (between
Savoy and Tuscany); and Plaisant,
Aspetti e problemi, 102 (between Savoy
and Monaco, 1595). See also other
declarations by Philip that he desired
above all things to preserve the peace
of Italy in Romero Garcia, El
imperialismo hispanico, 111—56; Dona,
524, lerrer to Venice of 24 July 1572;
and pp. 4-6 above.
29. AGS Estado 2855, unfoL, consultas of
27 Oct. 1588 and 10 Jan. 1589. See
also ASV LP 46/76V, Philip II to
Sixtus V, I Nov. 1588; Altadonna,
‘Cartas de Felipe II a Carlos Manuel’,
168-71, letters of 23 June, i
Nov. and 23 Dec. 1588; and Cano de
GardoquI, La cuestion de Saluzzo. In
1595 the king ordered his new ambassador
to Savoy to ‘restrain somewhat
the great enthusiasm of the duke
to undertake enterprises’ (Plaisant,
Aspetti e problemi, 108, secret instruction
to Lodosa, 21 Nov. 1595). See
also Chapter 10 above.
30. Vigo, Uno stato nell’impero, 14, quoting
Guicciardini; Arnold, ‘Fortifications
and the military revolution’.
327
328 Notes to pp. 8^—6
211, quoting Alessio Beccaguto. The
engineer was right: the Gonzaga
fortress of Casale resisted a Habsburg
siege in 1628—29 and again in 1630,
seriously compromising Spain’s
stature in Italy.
31. CDCV, II, 580-1.
32. See Calabria, The cost of empire, 79;
Rizzo, ‘Finanza pubblica’, 324 and
355-6; and Riley, ‘The State of
Milan’, 173—202. On the finances of
Sicily, see Koenigsberger, The practice
of empire, 124-43.
33. For the three states that ‘demobilized’
see Costantini, La Repubblica di
Genova, 52; Partner, ‘Papal financial
policy’, 52; and Angiolini, ‘Diplomazie
e politica’, 458. On the size of
Philip IPs galley fleet, see Parker,
Spain and the Netherlands, 122-33,
Ribot Garcia, ‘Las provincias
italianas’, no—13.
34. BNM Ms 783/191-2, Requesens,
governor of Milan, to Don John of
Austria, 16 Apr. 1572; AGS Estado
1235/207, ‘Relacion de los castillos
del Estado de Milan’, June 1572. The
outposts - Pontremoli in Lunigiana,
Nice across the border in Savoy, and
so on - are listed in Rizzo, ‘Competizione
politico-militare’. See also
the quotations in Rizzo, ‘Centro
spagnolo e periferia lombarda’, 324;
and Ribot Garcia, ‘Milan, plaza de
armas de la Monarquia’, 206.
35. For a sample, see the thousands of
transit permits for horses, arms,
armour and specie registered in ASMi
Cancellaria spagnola, XXI vols 18—22
(‘patenti’) for 1585-89, and for the
movement of troops and their equipment
and pay ibid., XXII vols 32-5
(‘mandati’) for 1585-87. Consider
also the following: between 1569 and
1571, Milan exported to Spain (for the
war of Granada) and the fleet, 20,000
arquebuses, 17,300 helmets, 6,000
corselets, almost 5,000 pikes and
almost 4,000 quintals of gunpowder
(AGS Estado 1232/95, ‘Relacion’).
36. On Alba’s march see Parker, Dutch
Revolt, 99—105, and idem. The Army of
Flanders, 61-7 and 81 (see also
pp. 278-9 for a list of other marches of
Spanish veterans from Italy to the
Netherlands); on Lepanto, see Parker,
Spain and the Netherlands, 122—33. On
the fortifications network constructed
by the Habsburgs, see Tosini, ‘Cittadelle
lombarde de fine ‘500’,
and Ribot Garcia, ‘Las provincias
italianas’, 104—6.
37. See the definitive account of this episode
in Edelmayer, Maximilian II.,
Philip II., und Reichsitalien. Ironically,
the Carretto dynasty which ruled
Finale soon died out and its last
member assigned the fief to Philip II;
Spain took possession in 1602. See
Cano de Gardoquf, La incorporacion del
marquesado de Finale', Atti dei convegni
internazionali sulla storia del Finale', and
Storrs, ‘Army of Lombardy, II,’ 15.
38. Nueva Co.Do.In., I, 38—40, Ayamonte
to Zuniga, 13 Jan. 1574 (the client
was Fabricio Correggio); and Rizzo,
‘Poteri, interessi e conflitti’ (on the
unrest in Lusola, a small fief in the
Lunigiana).
39. CDCV, II, 579—80. See further similar
sentiments at p. 584. Again, Ferdinand
of Aragon had given remarkably
similar advice to Charles in 1516: see
Doussinague, Politica internacional,
681.
40. CDCV, II, 584-7 and 590.
41. BPM Ms II-2320/6, Granvelle to
Juan Vazquez, 29 May 1559. See the
interesting discussion of the treaty
in Rodriguez-Salgado, Changing face,
325-30; and in Russell, Peacemaking
in the Renaissance, 242—55.
42. Koenigsberger, Politicians and virtuosi,
88, Philip II to Margaret of Parma, 15
July 1562; Alava, 205, Philip II to
Alava, 27 Nov. 1567. Philip sent
troops from Spain to fight in France in
1563 and from the Netherlands in
1569; he also prepared another expeditionary
force in Spain ready to intervene
in 1570.
43. Quotation from Lalanne, Oeuvres
completes de. . . Brantbme, IV, 304—6;
and Alamos de Barrientos, Discurso
politico, 44-5. For further detail on
Philip’s policy towards France see
Notes to pp. 86—^ 329
Chapters 6—7 and 10 above; on the
confused but critical last decade, see
Tenace, ‘Spanish intervention in
Brittany’.
44. Philip IPs Scandinavian policy has
been little studied: see, however,
Hildebrand, Johan III och Europas
katolska makter, 154 and 287-313 (in
1557 John Ill’s mother. Bona Sforza,
left her extensive Italian estates
to Philip II and her son entered
into complex negotiations to secure
compensation: my thanks to Jason
Lavery for this reference); Boratynski,
‘Esteban Batory’; and Ruiz Martin, ‘El
pan de los pafses balticos’. See also
pp. 200—1 above on Danish attempts
to broker a peace between Spain and
England in 1588.
45. Charles V had attempted to resolve
this problem with the ‘New Laws’ of
1542, but they had provoked rebellion;
then in 1551-52 he permitted
public debates on policy to be held at
Valladolid and Seville. See the excellent
summary in Hanke, The Spanish
struggle for justice, chap. 8.
46. CDCV, II, 106 (Instructions of 1543)
and 573-4 (Instructions of 1548).
47. Parker, The Army of Flanders, 134.
48. See Carlos Morales, El consejo de Hacienda,
82, 77-8 and 121.
49. We lack a reliable history of Philip IPs
finances, partly because the surviving
documentation is at once so abundant
and so chaotic; but see Ulloa, La hacienda
real de Castilla. For the particular
issue of debt rescheduling, see
Castillo, ‘Dette flottante et dette consolidee
en Espagne’; Lovett, ‘The
Castilian bankruptcy of 1575’; idem,
‘The General Settlement of 1577’;
and, from the bankers’ point of view,
Doria, ‘Un quadrennio critico, 1575—
78’. Naples has been better served: see
Calabria, The cost of empire.
50. PEG, V, 606, Philip II to Granvelle,
24 June 1559. Charles V scarcely
mentioned Spain in his ‘Political
Testament’. On the significant westward
shift of the Habsburg empire’s
centre of gravity during the 1550s, see
Lutz and Miiller-Luckner, Das romischdeutsche
Reich, i-iy—S', Kohler, Das
Reich im Kampf, 22—6; and Rodriguez-
Salgado, Changing face, 339—56.
51. IVdeDJ 67/121, Requesens to
Zuniga, 30 Oct. 1575. See Requesens’s
similar lament two weeks later,
cited on p. 143 above; and Chapter
4 above for further details on the
collapse of Philip IPs policies in
1575-6.
52. See Tenace, ‘Spanish intervention in
Brittany’, 426—7.
53. For the link between bankruptcy and
peacemaking in 1559, see Russell,
Peacemaking in the Renaissance, 242-5 5;
in 1575-77, see Braudel, The Mediterranean,
1150-61, and Skilliter, ‘The
Hispano-Ottoman armistice of 1581’;
and in 1597-98, see Tenace, ‘Spanish
intervention in Brittany’, chap. 10. Of
course, many subsequent governments
experienced much the same phenomenon:
even in the twentieth century,
despite the more sophisticated understanding
of economics and public
finance, most of the European states
that fought World War I also bordered
on bankruptcy (and some
defaulted): see Hardach, The First
World War, 144—69; Balderstone,
‘War finance’; and Neal, War finance,
III, 5-225.
54. CDCV, II, 591-2.
55. Details in Chabod, ‘Milan o los Pafses
Bajos?’ Late in 1547 a prominent
minister proposed the marriage of
Marfa to Emanuel Philibert of Savoy,
making them joint rulers of the Netherlands
(in return for which, Emanuel
Philibert would cede Piedmont
to Philip: ibid., pp. 356—64); but
Marfa’s marriage to Maximilian had
already been arranged. For other discussions
of broad policy, see Chabod,
‘Contrasti interni e dibattiti sulla
politica generale di Carlo V’. On other
proposals to exchange Milan, see
Vigo, Uno stato nell’impero, 21, 26.
56. See the opinions quoted in Chabod,
‘Milan o los Pafses Bajos?’, 341, 364,
369-70.
57. Quotations from Gachard, Retraite et
mort de Charles-Quint, II, 43, Philip IPs
330 Notes to pp. 89—90
Instructions to Bartolome Carranza, 5
June 1558; and BL Addl 28,702/
96—100, Granvelle to Don Juan de
Idiaquez, 3 Mar. 1582; and AGS
Estado 2023/24 and 124, consultas of
the council of State on 21 Mar. and
20 July 1600. For Philip IPs fear of
France, see Sutherland, ‘The origins of
the Thirty Years War’, 594-6; and
the general remarks of Israel, Empires
and entrepots, 163—9, and idem. The
Dutch Republic. Its rise, greatness and
fall, 131—2. For similar expressions
from a later period, see Israel,
‘Olivares, the Cardinal-Infante and
Spain’s strategy’.
58. Quotations from AGS Estado 554/89,
Philip II to Alba, 18 Mar. 1573; ibid.
2843/7, consulta of the council of
State, 5 Sept. 1577. For a later
example, see the stirring phrase of
Don Balthasar de Zuniga, chief minister
of Philip IV: ‘A monarchy that has
lost its reputation, even if it has lost
no territory, is a sky without light, a
sun without rays, a body without a
soul’, quoted by Elliott, ‘Managing
decline’, 93.
59. AGS Estado 2851, unfoL, opinion of
Almazan, 22 Nov. 1588; and Estado
2855, unfol., ‘Lo que pare^io sobre los
quatro papeles principals’, Nov.
1589.
60. HHStA Spanien Varia 2/59—62, report
of Christophe d’Assonleville on his
mission to England, Dec. 1558; AGS
Estado 137/95—7, ‘Apunctamientos
para embiar a Espana’ (points 7 and 8),
undated. The king forwarded the
second document, with comments, to
his regent in Spain: AGS Estado •^21!
20—I, Philip II to Juana, 29 June 1559.
61. CCG, I, 314-18: Granvelle to Philip
II, 19 June 1566; ASN CF 1706,
Miguel de Mendivil to Margaret of
Parma, 22 Sept. 1566 (from Cahier
van der Essen XXXIV/18—19); Serrano,
II, 60, Cardinal Alexandrino to
Nuncio Castagna, 6 Mar. 1567; Fourquevaux,
II, 34, letter to Catherine de
Medici, 23 Dec. 1568 ; and IVdeDJ 6/
12/6, Requesens to Zuniga, 23 Sept.
1572.
62. Quotations from IVdeDJ 76/491-
503, ‘Relacion’ by Juan de Ovando,
Apr. 1574, and ibid., 51/33, Vazquez
to Philip II with reply, 20 June 1574.
See also ibid., 53/3/87, same to same,
4 July 1574, and ibid., 44/136, same
to same, 31 May 1575. For a classic
statement of the apparent ‘interdependence
of commitments’ of
modern superpowers, see Schelling,
Arms and influence, 55—6.
63. AGS Estado 2843/7, Parescer’ of the
council of State, 7 Sept. 1577, opinion
of Quiroga, supported by Aguilar and
the president of the council of Castile
(another copy of this document at
Estado 57o/i03bis). The same view
was expressed equally forcefully in
1578: see, for example, Estado 570/2,
consulta of 3 Feb. 1578; Estado 578/
121, opinion of the duke of Sesa, 22
June 1578; and AHN Inquisicion libro
284/156—8, opinion of Quiroga, 30
July 1578. Events vindicated these
fears in 1585, when a rebellion broke
out in Naples and the insurgents
warned the viceroy to ‘have an eye to
events in the Netherlands’: Villari, La
rivolta antispagnola a Napoli, 49—51.
64. Quotations from AGS Estado 2023/
124, consulta of the council of State
on 20 July 1600; Alcocer, Consultas del
consejo de Estado, 261: vote of the count
of Chinchon - fully buttressed by historical
examples stretching back
to 1559 - in the council of State’s
consulta ‘Sobre el remedio general de
Flandes’, 26 Nov. 1602; and AGS
Estado ‘Papeles tocantes al
buen govierno’, i Jan. 1605, by
Juan Andrea Doria. See also the
‘domino theory’ deployed in 1635
by the count-duke of Olivares: ‘The
greatest dangers [facing the crown}
are those that threaten Lombardy,
the Netherlands and Germany,
because a defeat in any of these three
is fatal for this Monarchy; so much
so that if the defeat in those parts
is a great one, the rest of the
Monarchy will collapse, for Germany
will be followed by Italy and the
Netherlands, and the Netherlands
Notes to pp. 90—5 331
will be followed by America; and
Lombardy will be followed by Naples
and Sicily, without the possibility of
being able to defend either.’ AGS GA
1120, unfol., paper of Olivares
written in Feb. 1635.
65. BPM Ms II-2291, unfol., count of
Feria to Granvelle, 7 Sept. 1560;
BMB Ms Granvelle, 8/189, Perez to
Granvelle, 19 Feb. 1564.
66. Actas de las Cortes, III, 16, speech of
Francisco de Erasso, 1570; Co.Do.In.,
CII, 68, Zuniga to Philip II, 2 Apr.
1573-
67. Bouza Alvarez, ‘Portugal en la
Monarqufa hispanica’, 70, G. B. Gesio
to Philip II, 20 Sept. 1578. See also p.
166 above. On the fall in remittances
to the Netherlands, see Parker, The
Army of Flanders, 293.
68. Casado Soto, Discursos, 193. See also
the identical sentiments of a Spanish
minister half a century later: ‘Our first
concern should be to settle the problems
of Spain, rather than to save the
other provinces, because if the war
[in the peninsula) lasts for long
everything will be lost; whereas by
regaining Catalonia and Portugal,
everything can be sustained and we
can recover what has been lost [elsewhere]’
(AHN Estado libro 969, unfol.,
Don Miguel de Salamanca to Olivares,
Brussels, 14 July 1641, minute).
69. Garcia Hernan, ‘La curia romana’,
645, Philip II to Diego de Espinosa,
8 Feb. 1564. On the start of the war
in 1550—51, see Lutz, Christianitas
Afflicta, 40—2; on the collapse of the
peace talks in 1559, see Rodrfguez-
Salgado, Changing face, 298—302.
For Ferdinand of Aragon’s aggressive
Mediterranean policy, see Doussinague,
RoUtica internacional, 487—
93-
70. For appeals to place the Netherlands
before the Mediterranean, see Epistolario.
III, 289-91 and 300, Alba to
Philip II, 12 Feb. and 7 Mar. 1573;
Co.Do.In., CII, 378, Requesens to
Zuniga, 22 Nov. 1573; AGS Estado
1066/6, Granvelle to Philip II, 6 Feb.
1575; and pp. 133-4 above. For the
king’s defence of his strategic choices,
see AGS Estado 554/84, ‘Las razones
que concurren para no se poder dexar
la Jornada de Levante’ [early Mar.
1573]; and Estado 554/89, Philip II to
Alba, 18 Mar. 1573. See also Estado
2843/3, Philip II to Don John, 31 Jan.
1577, insisting that peace must be
preserved in the Netherlands as long
as the Turks threatened Italy. For the
truce of 1578, see p. 145 above. For
later efforts to undermine Turkish
power, see the examples in Oliveira e
Costa and Gaspar Rodrigues, Portugal
y Oriente, 321—7.
71. Serrano, I, 310, Philip II to Requesens,
his ambassador in Rome, i
Aug. 1566. See also an earlier paean
of self-praise in AGS Estado 119/40,
Philip II to Juana, 10 June and 2 July
1557, summary.
72. PEG, VI, 149, Philip II to Granvelle,
7 Sept. 1560; Serrano, I, 316-17,
to Requesens, 12 Aug. 1566; CCG,
XII, 339-41, to Parma, 17 Aug.
1585; KML MSP: CR 6/174, to
Medina Sidonia, 15 Dec. 1590;
IVdeDJ 51/1, Vazquez to Philip II
and reply, 8 Feb. 1591 (Vazquez’s
proposal in Parker, Philip II, 181). See
yet more similar quotations in
Reivindicacion, 151—2, and Garcia
Hernan, ‘La curia romana’, 645.
73. Alava, 221, Philip II to Alava, 19 Feb.
1568; and Co.Do.In., CIII, 432, to
Maximilian II, 5 Feb. 1570. For
further examples of his advice to other
(as he saw it, weaker) Catholic rulers,
see Alava, 221—4, Philip II to Alava, 19
Feb. 1568; and Fourquevaux, II, 167-
72, letter to Charles IX, 5 Jan. 1570.
74. See Checa, Tiziano, 59—60, 259, and
Tanner, Last descendant, 202—6 and
217-18. On the propaganda value of
portraying monarchs at prayer, see
Potter, Secret rites, 159; on the role of
‘emotionally based ideological romanticism’
among twentieth-century
statesmen, see Gaddis, We now know,
291.
7 5. For a list of chronicles on the king and
his deeds, see Bordeje y Morencos, El
escenario estrategico, 39—41, and Kagan,
332 Notes to pp. 93-7
‘Felipe IF; for other aspects of propaganda
see three fine articles by Bouza
Alvarez, ‘La majestad de Felipe
IF, ‘Retorica da imagem real’, and
‘Monarchie en lettres d’imprimerie’.
76. On the Antiapologia, possibly written
by Pedro Cornejo, see Timmer, ‘Een
verweerschrift’. Lord Burghley’s annotated
copy of La felicissima Armada is
now in the British Library (Printed
books: 192 f 17 (i) t.p.): see a
sample page in Whitehead, Brags and
boasts, 67.
77. On papal reluctance to engage in polemics
until the 15 30s, see Edwards,
‘Catholic controversial literature’,
201-4; oil ihe Catholic pamphleteers
in and around the Netherlands,
see Vermaseren, De katholieke
Nederlandsche Geschiedschrijving. On
the publicity for 1588, see Gomez
Centurion, ‘The new crusade’; idem.
La Invencible, chap. 2; and pp. 201—3
below.
78. The sermon, delivered by Cardinal
Reginald Pole, is printed in Anon.,
‘The chronicle of Queen Jane’, 158 (I
thank Glyn Redworth for this reference).
On Portugal see Cabrera, II,
633—4. See also quotations in Perena
Vicente, Teorta de la guerra, I, 63—4; in
Tanner, Last descendant, 167—8; and in
the twenty-nine funeral orations for
Philip II noted by Vargas Hidalgo,
‘Documentos ineditos’, 453—61.
Interestingly, between 1587 and
1590, however, a group of the king’s
critics in Madrid suggested that
a ‘second David’ was about to appear,
in order to rescue Spain from the
house of Habsburg: see Milhou, Colon
y su mentalidad mesidnica, 245—9, and
Kagan, Lucrecia’s dreams, 73 (and
indeed all of chap. 3).
79. AMAE MDFD 237/59, Philip II to
Olivares, his ambassador in Rome, 30
Sept. 1585, original: a most remarkable
letter. The ‘rex et sacerdos’ link
is suggested both by Fernandez
Albaladejo, ‘“Imperio de por sf”, in
idem, Fragmentos de Monarquta', and by
Lison Tolosana, La imagen del rey,
103—6. For evidence that some saw
Philip as a saint, see Vargas Hidalgo,
‘Documentos ineditos’, 399.
80. See the bold comprehensive statements
of the king’s patronage rights
in Encinas, I, fos 83-179. See also
AGS GA 72/164, royal cedula of 27
Mar. 1569 forbidding any devotional
work to be printed in Spain without
royal licence; and Setton, The Papacy
and the Levant, IV, 912, on Philip’s
insistence that papal bulls could only
be published in his dominions with
royal permission (the ‘exsequatur’).
81. AGS Estado 946/148, Philip II to
Olivares, 22 Aug. 1585, minute; BL
Addl 28,346/270, same to same, 24
Feb. and 27 June 1586, copies; AGS
Estado 947/84, same to same, 11 Dec.
1586 (see also fo. 87, a list of the cases
that the pope wished to review); and
ASV NS 33/235, Philip II to Sixtus V,
2 Apr. 1587, holograph. For an
example of the king’s personal intervention
in patronage, see Heredia
Herrera, Catalogo, I, 674: consulta of
14 June 1590, and royal reply. For an
example of Philip virtually demanding
a Spanish cardinal at once, see Garcia
Hernan, ‘La iglesia de Santiago’, 329.
82. See the original letters of recommendation
in the Archivo General del
Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores in
Madrid, Embajada de la Santa Seek,
legajo I onwards (with microfilm
copies in the Spanish embassy in
Rome: I thank Michael Levin for this
information); BCR Ms 2174/133,
Philip II to viceroy of Naples, 11 Mar.
1575; Co.Do.In., XCVII, 417—18,
Don Juan de Zuniga to the archbishop
of Santiago, 4 Apr. 1568,
Rome, minute (mentioning Pius V’s
complaint).
83. Hergueta, ‘Notas diplomaticas’; and
AGS Estado 951/93, Philip II to
Olivares, 23 Oct. 1588.
84. AGS Estado 946/i4ia, Philip II to
Olivares, 31 Mar. 1585, minute with
holograph corrections by the king;
Checa, Felipe II, 293—4.
85. See the detailed consideration of this
parallel in von der Osten Sacken, San
Lorenzo, 207—40; Tanner, Last descendNotes
to pp. 97—9 333
ant, 162—82; and Mulcahy, The decoration
of the royal basilica, 131-3.
86. See the remarkable pages on this
subject in Eire, Madrid to purgatory,
264-5, 284-5 338-47; and
Rocca, ‘Court and cloister’.
87. Estal, ‘Felipe II y su archivo hagiografico’;
von der Osten Sacken,
San Lorenzo, 160-3; Eire, Madrid to
purgatory, 266—8 and 331—4. See also
Checa, Felipe II, 284-99 (‘Pietas
Austriaca’).
88. See BAV UL 1115/108-9, newsletter
from Madrid 10 Jan. 1587 (‘esta
todavia recogido en el cuarto nuevo {of
the Madrid palace]; avia mandado
hazer este quarto con fin de recogerse
en el los inviernos’; and Fray Mateo de
Ovando, Sermon funebre for Philip II
in 1598 (the late king ‘devotissimo,
recogido, y todo empleado en la
veneracion y culto divino. Recogiose a
su nido de San Lorenzo . . .’), quoted
by Checa, ‘Felipe II en El EscoriaF, 17.
On the meanings of‘recogido’, see van
Deusen, ‘Recogimiento’, 1—66.
89. BZ 141/84, Philip II to Mateo
Vazquez, 19 Feb. 1586; IVdeDJ 55/
IX/iii, 26 July 1586; and BZ 143/6,
4 Jan. 1588. For the king’s total
seclusion during his ‘retreats’, see
Fourquevaux, II, 3-7, Memoir of Oct.
1568, and Sigiienza, 92 (Holy Week,
1579). See further examples of daily
religious devotions delaying the king’s
business at: CCG XII, 534-5 [Sept.
1579}, the king received a letter going
to Mass, but did not read it until after
it ended; ibid., XI, 277-8, 22 Sept.
1584, the king could not read
Granvelle’s letter because he went to
vespers to commemorate the anniversary
of his father’s death. Nevertheless
the king did occasionally read important
papers while in church (Dona,
372-3, letter to Venice, 2 Nov. 1571:
Philip reading newly arrived letters
‘right after the incense’; and IVdeDJ
68/28ya, Vazquez to Philip II and reply,
28 June 1574: ‘I have seen all
these, although in haste and most of
them during vespers’); and he once
told his daughters that he could not go
to matins ‘because I had a lot to do’
(Bouza, 57, letter of 15 Jan. 1582). Cf
Margaret Thatcher’s account of doing
business on the back of her hymn sheet
one day during a service: Thatcher, The
Downing Street years, 76.
90. We shall probably never know,
because his will commanded that all
his letters to and from Fray Diego de
Chaves, his confessor, should be burnt
after his death without being read: see
Documentos . . . El Escorial, II, 48,
codicil of 23 Aug. 1597. No part of
this correspondence seems to have survived,
so we have nothing to set beside
his grandson Philip IV’s soulsearching
letters to Sor Maria de
Agreda. On sleeping in time of
sermon, see Bouza, 90.
91. In 1938, when he addressed a rally in
Vienna, the city where he had grown
up, Adolf Hitler declared, ‘I believe it
was God’s will to send a youth from
here into the Reich, to let him grow
up, to raise him to be the leader of the
nation so as to enable him to lead back
his homeland into the Reich’. He saw
other victories and deliverances (such
as escapes from assassination) as ‘fresh
confirmation of the mission given me
by Providence to continue toward my
goal’. See Bullock, Hitler and Stalin,
569 (Vienna 1938) and 846 (after surviving
the July bomb plot, 1944).
92. Groen van Prinsterer, Archives, 2nd
series I, 84, Francois de la Noue to an
English correspondent, 17 Aug. 1588;
for Espinosa’s assessment of Lepanto
in 1571, see note 99 below. Various
‘providentialist’ medals of 1588 are
reproduced in Rodriguez-Salgado,
Armada 1^88—1988, 276—7 and ED,
I, 217—18. For examples of English
‘providentialism’ see Wiener, ‘The beleaguered
isle’; McKenna, ‘How God
became an Englishman’; McGiffert,
‘God’s controversy with Jacobean
England’; Cressy, Bonfires and bells,
chaps 7, 9 and 10; and Woolf, The idea
of History in early Stuart England, 4—8.
On the Dutch, see Groenhuis, De
predikanten, 77—107.
93. See Fleischer, ‘The lawgiver as
334 Notes to pp. ^^—102
1
f P‘
Messiah’. I thank Sanjay
Subrahmanyam for drawing to my
attention the messianic impulses of
both Safavid and Mogul rulers in the
later sixteenth century.
94. On Manuel, see Thomaz, ‘Factions,
interests and messianism’; on
Ferdinand, see Suarez Fernandez, ‘La
situacion internacional en torno a
1492’. On Charles V’s messianic imperialism
from the 1520s onwards see
Bataillon, Erasmo y Espana, 226—31;
Yates, Astraea, 1—28; and Sanchez
Montes, Franceses, protestantes, turcos,
42-51.
95. Salazar, Polttka espanola, proposition
3; Campanella quoted by Pagden,
Spanish imperialism, 51. See also the
discussion of the views of Francisco
Vazquez de Menchaca in the 1560s
by Fernandez Albaladejo, ‘ “Rey
Catolico”’, 210, and Pagden, Lords of
all the world, 56—62. See the interesting
evidence of a growing religious
obsession among ‘ordinary’ Spaniards
in the later sixteenth century in Eire,
Madrid to purgatory, 188—215.
96. Sigiienza, 8; PEG, V, 643, Philip II
to Granvelle, 24 Aug. 1559. Interestingly
the king went on to say that
losing his states for lack of money
‘would be the saddest thing I can
imagine, and one which I would regret
more than anything else - much
more than if I lost them in a battle’.
97. AGS Estado 527/5, Philip II to
Gonzalo Perez, undated [Mar. 1565];
and IVdeDJ 37/155, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 22 Jan. 1576.
98. IVdeDJ 55/X/52, Vazquez to Philip
II and reply, 24 Mar. 1587; IVdeDJ
55/XII/16—17, same to same, 16 Feb.
1589.
99. BL Addl 28,704/270v-i, Espinosa to
Alba and Don Juan de Zuniga, 4 Dec.
1571, on the victory, ‘la mayor despues
de la del Vermejo’. Fernando de
Herrera’s canticle on Lepanto
also compared the victory with the
drowning of Pharaoh’s army in the Red
Sea (see Lopez de Toro, Los poetas de
Lepanto, 233—42). In Italy the victory
unleashed a host of prophecies: see
Ginzburg, ‘Due note sul profetismo
cinquecentesco’, 207-12; and
Olivieri, ‘II significato escatologico di
Lepanto’. On the messianic ambitions
of the Spanish Court at this time, see
Jedin, Chiesa della storia, 703—22;
and Garcia Hernan, ‘Pio V y el
mesianismo profetico’. For the
‘emperor of the east’ project, see Garcia
Hernan, La Armada espanola, 67-8.
100. AGRB Audience 1728/2/77, Alba to
Count Bossu, 29 Aug. 1572. Philip II
was equally moved: according to the
French ambassador, when he arrived
for an audience the day after receiving
news of the massacre, the king ‘began
to laugh, with signs of extreme pleasure
and satisfaction’, and he confessed
to his own ambassador in Paris (the
source of the news) that ‘I had one of
the greatest moments of satisfaction
that I have had in all my life’: Kamen,
Philip, 141, quoting St Gouard to
Charles IX, and Philip II to Don
Diego de Zuniga, both on 18 Sept.
1572. The king also looked forward to
news of more massacres elsewhere in
France and the Lord did not disappoint
him: see Benedict, ‘The St
Bartholomew’s massacres in the provinces’
(massacres in at least twelve
other French cities, and anti-
Protestant ‘incidents’ in eight more).
101. Quotations from BL Eg. 1506/16—17,
Gaspar de Quiroga, bishop of Cuenca
and Inquisitor-General, to Philip II
and reply, 8 Mar. 1574; and IVdeDJ
51/31, Mateo Vazquez to Philip II, 31
May 1574. On the prayer chain, see
Bouza Alvarez, ‘Monarchie en lettres
d’imprimerie’, 214-15, and Sigiienza,
69.
102. BZ 144/30, Vazquez to Philip II, 24
Nov. 1574 (the king replied ‘When
you come here [to see me], tell me
what you heard about La Goleta and
from whom’); Manrique quoted
in Bouza Alvarez, ‘Servidumbres’ (I
thank Professor Bouza for drawing
this and other references from his
article to my attention ahead of publication);
IVdeDJ 51/181, Mateo
Vazquez to Philip II, 28 Dec. 1578.
Notes to pp. 102—4 335
See also other criticisms from this
period on pp. 20—1 above.
103. Cueto, ‘1580 and all that’, 156,
Cristobal de Moura to Philip II, 25
Nov. 1578; IVdeDJ 51/105, Mateo
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 22
Aug. 1583; Freitas de Meneses, Os
Azores, II, 83, Figueroa to Philip II, 3
Oct. 1582. Philip also thought about
the queen and St Anne in 1588: see
Kamen, Philip, 273. See also the long
list of saints whose intervention Philip
sought in his will: Eire, Madrid to purgatory,
284 n.
104. The sonnet of Hernando de Acuna (d.
1580), first published in his Warias
poestas (Madrid, 1591), is taken from
Rivers, Poesia Itrica, 108-9 (my thanks
to Santiago Garcia-Castanon for this
reference). See the brilliant analysis of
the messianic imperialism of the
soldier-poets by Terry, ‘War and literature’.
Other expansionist writers of
this period are discussed in Fernandez
Armesto, ‘Armada myths’.
105. Details from Kagan, Students and
society, 83, 92—4. See also Martinez
Millan, ‘Un curioso manuscrito’,
which records the promotions envisaged
by Cardinal Espinosa between
1566 and 1572: many of the candidates
were graduates of the colegios
106. Amlaayv oare,s . to Alba, 17 Mar. 1568,
and 352, Zsayecs to Alava, 27 June
1569. Another example of heavy religious
humour occurred when Alava
sent a copy of the Augsburg Confession
to Madrid: Zayas referred to it as
the ‘Augsburg Confusion’ (ibid.,
316).
107. AGS Estado 531/91, Fray Lorenzo de
Villavicencio to Philip II, 6 Oct. 1566
(‘humbly’ seems curiously incongruous
amid such threats); Cueto,
‘1580 and all that’, 167; ASV NS 32/
181—3, Nuncio Novara to Rusticucci,
4 July 1586. A decade earlier, Don
Luis Manrique (p. 20 above) had also
used ‘providential’ arguments to try
and change the king’s mind. For a
similar suggestion that President
Truman’s deliberate appointment of
men who held principles like his own
may have reduced his administration’s
flexibility, see Johnson, Managing the
White House, 64; see also Halperin,
B ureaucratic politics, 161.
108. Monumenta historica societatis lesu, LX,
Ribadeneira, II, 105-11, letter to Don
Juan de Idiaquez, Dec. 1588. On
Ribadeneira’s political philosophy,
see Bireley, The Counter-Reformation
Prince, chap. 5. For another example of
open and outspoken clerical criticism
of the king at this time, see CSPV,
VIII, 396, Lippomano to Venice, i
Oct. 1588.
109. Quotations from ASV NS 19/15, Lodi
to Rusticucci, 25 Apr. 1586; ASF MP
4919/88, Alemanni to Florence, 6
Feb. 1588. See the similar sentiments
of the ambassadors of Lucca (ASL
Anziani, 644, Compagni to Republic,
26 June 1588) and Ferrara (ASMo
CD 15, Ripa to Ferrara, 5 Mar., 30
Apr. and 23 July 1588.) A few people,
however, showed less constancy. As
early as July 1588, after storms had
driven the Armada back to Corunna,
the nuncio began to wonder whether
‘these impediments which the devil
creates’ might not be a sign that ‘God
does not approve of the enterprise’;
and in November he noted that the
fleet’s various misfortunes had ‘disturbed
everyone, since they can almost
openly see the hand of God raised
against us’. ASV NS 34/415-18 and
583-5, Novara to Montalto, 6 July
and 8 Nov. 1588.
no. For the hope that ‘God would return
to support his cause’ see BMO, II,
338-9, Philip II to Don Bernardino
de Mendoza, 5 Sept. 1586, minute
(about the failure of the Babington
plot to assassinate Elizabeth Tudor);
and Kamen, Philip, 298. For ‘God
has done this’, see BZ 166/92 and
100, Hernando de Vega to Philip
II and reply, 9 and ii Nov. 1586
(upon learning that the annual
Indies fleet had arrived safely at
Seville).
III. For details on these two cases, see
Parker, Dutch Revolt, 64-5, and Garcia
336 Notes to pp. 104—6
Vilar, ‘El Maquiavelismo’, 620-42.
For Philip’s use of theologians in the
1590s, see p. 277 above.
112. Horozco y Covarrubias, Tratado de la
verdadera y falsa profesta, fos 37—8;
Diaz Jimeno, Hado y fortuna, chap. 7;
Kagan, Lucrecia’s dreams', and idem,
‘Politics, prophecy and the Inquisition’.
Kagan argues that the three
principal ‘plaza prophets’ of 1588
were manipulated by domestic opponents
of the king. Certainly all three
were arrested soon after the Armada’s
failure. See also an example of consulting
necromancers in 1572 at p.
126 above; and the suggestion that
Philip brought troops to the Escorial
in 1577 because of a prediction that
fire would consume a royal palace that
year (Sigiienza, 76—7: in fact a bolt of
lightning did cause a fire at the palace
that summer).
113. Huerga, ‘La vida seudomistica’, 62—3;
and RAH Ms 9-2320/5V, Creswell to
Philip III, 1602: ‘el santo varon . . .
me dixo que aquella Armada iria en
humo’ — so perhaps he did indeed
enjoy a hotline to heaven.
114. For everyday examples of this complex
but important phenomenon in action
see, for continental Europe: Ozment,
Protestants, 196-204; and Theibault,
‘Jeremiah in the village’; and for England
and its colonies, Donagan, ‘Understanding
Providence’; von Greyerz,
Yorsehungsglaube und Kosmologie, 80—
118; Hall, Worlds of wonder, 77—80,
91-4 and 116; Worden, ‘Providence
and politics’; and idem, ‘Oliver
Cromwell’. Perhaps the most remarkable
example is presented by Gillespie,
‘Destabilizing Ulster 1641—2’,
116-19, which shows that in the earlier
seventeenth century, Irish Protestants
identified themselves with
Israel and Irish Catholics with the
Maccabees.
115. Burnet, Memoires of the dukes of
Hamilton, Charles I to Hamilton, Dec.
1642 (I thank Ian Gentles for bringing
this reference to my attention);
and Halliwell, Letters of the kings of
England, II, 383-4, Charles I to Prince
Rupert, 31 July 1645. See also
Charles’s uncompromising earlier
statement, when only the Scots defied
him, that ‘I will rather die than yield
to these impertinent and damnable
demands’: Ohlmeyer, Civil war and
Restoration, 77, Charles to Hamilton,
II June 1638. Charles’s grandmother
Mary Stuart had also met a martyr’s
death.
116. Thomas Beard, The theatre of God’s
judgements (1597), quoted with
splendid examples of Cromwell’s acceptance
of this philosophy in
Sproxton, Violence and religion, 52 and
59—61. See also Armitage, ‘The
Cromwellian Protectorate’, 540-1.
117. Davis, ‘Cromwell’s religion’, in
Morrill, Oliver Cromwell, 187. For
three examples (among many) of this
attitude among Philip II and his
advisers, see: IVdeDJ 53/3/33,
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 27
Apr. 1574 (‘pues Dios nos ayuda y
haze tanta merced’, wrote the king,
‘agora es menester que nosotros nos
ayudemos’); BL Addl 28,702/24-5,
Idiaquez to Granvelle, 24 June 1580
(‘Parezge que Dios nos ayuda si nos
sabemos ayudar’); and IVdeDJ 51/
105, Vazquez to Philip II, 22 Aug.
1583 (‘el cuidado, zelo y asistencia con
que Vuestra Magestad acude a las
cosas del servicio de Nuestro Senor
hazen que El acuda como vemos a las
de Vuestra Magestad’).
118. BZ 146/219, council of Finance to
Philip II, 14 June 1588 with long
royal response of the i8th, copy; and
BZ 143/111, Mateo Vazquez to Philip
II and reply, 28 June 1588.
119. BMO, I, 62, Philip II to Alba, 14 Sept.
1571; see p. 162 above for other
similar statements and for the context.
Perena Vicente, Teorta de la guerra, 70—
I, offers an interesting consideration of
this correspondence. Devout Protestants
at this time also believed ‘it is no
greater fault to have confidence in
man’s power than it is to[o] hastily to
despair of God’s work’: Feuillerat, The
prose works of Sir Philip Sidney, III, 180,
Sidney to Walsingham, 24 Mar. 1586
Notes to pp. 106—9 337
(ironically, discussing the best way to
oppose Philip II).
120. AGS Estado 165/2-3, Philip II to
Archduke Albert, 14 Sept. 1587.
Perhaps the triumphant November
voyage of the Dutch Armada a century
later vindicated Philip II, however, by
showing that God could send good
weather when He chose. See Israel and
Parker, ‘Of Providence and Protestant
winds’.
121. IVdeDJ 37/59 Requesens to Zuniga,
II Oct. 1574 (‘quiza deve de ser
inspiracion de Dios’); BMO, III, 1964,
Bertendona to Philip II, 15 Feb. 1588;
Mattingly, Defeat, 233 (quoting the
papal collector, Buongiovanni, to
Rome, in May 1588).
122. IVdeDJ 144/36, Vazquez to Philip II
and reply, ii Dec. 1574 (‘Dios nos
ayude en todo, que yo os digo que es
tanto menester que a mi parece que se
ha de ser servido con hazer milagro,
porque sin el yo veo todo en los peores
termynos que puede ser’). Even before
these reverses, the king felt that
‘Unless God performs a miracle, which
our sins do not merit, it is no longer
possible to maintain ourselves for
[more than a few] months, let alone
years’ (IVdeDJ 53/3/56, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 13 May 1574).
123. BNM Ms 9444/252v-3, Scipio de
Castro’s ‘Instructions’ to the duke
of Terranova, c. 1583 (my thanks to
Mario Rizzo for this reference); BMO,
III, 478, Idiaquez to Medina Sidonia,
3 June 1587; BCR Ms 2417/37-42,
Don Juan de Silva to Esteban de
Ibarra, 13 Aug. 1589 (other extracts
from this letter appear on pp. 66—7
above). For examples of blind faith
in miracles earlier in the reign,
see Olivieri, ‘II significativo . . . di
Lepanto’, 260, 262.
124. CCG, XII, \-i6-~i, Granvelle to
Margaret of Parma, 15 Nov. 1585;
AGS Estado 590/23, Parma to Philip
II, 28 Feb. 1586 - and, in another
letter of the same day, ‘God will grow
weary of working miracles for us’
{Estado 590/22).
125. Quotations from Maura, 258—61,
Medina Sidonia to Philip II, 21 and
24 June 1588; Herrera Oria, 210-14,
Philip II to Medina Sidonia, i July
1588; and KML MSP: CR, 5/353,
Medina Sidonia to Archduke Albert,
15 July 1588, minute.
126. AGS Estado Philip II to
Alba, 27 Nov. 1572, minute; Estado
2219/84, Philip II to Parma, 31 Aug.
1588, and fos 85-6 ‘Apuntamiento en
materia de armada que Su Magestad
mando hazer para que se considere y
resuelva entre el duque de Parma,
su sobrino, y el duque de Medina
Sidonia’ (four foolscap sheets). Admittedly
Philip’s Instructions to Parma
(dated i Apr. 1588) contained advice
on what to do should he not capture
London after getting his forces
ashore (see p. 267 above) but not on
what to do should the Armada not
arrive.
127. Von Neumann’s elegant paraphrase of
‘Murphy’s Law’ quoted by Campbell,
Grammatical man, 73. See also Thomas,
‘To err is human’, 561 — ‘Mistakes are
at the very base of human thought,
embedded there, feeding the structure
. . . We are built to make mistakes,
coded for error’ - and the interesting
essays on this subject in Beaumont,
War, chaos and history. Clausewitz
quoted p. 206 above.
128. The Schlieffen Plan of 1914 did
not even provide for success: it
failed to specify what would happen
if Paris fell but required defending,
as the Russian armies slowly but
surely began their march on Berlin
(I thank Holger Herwig for this
observation).
129. Ulloa, Hacienda real, 831, quoting
Vazquez; Gonzalez de Cellorigo,
Memorial, 94; Alamos de Barrientos,
Discursopolitico, 31,42-52. (This tract,
although not published until the nineteenth
century, circulated widely in
manuscript. It has sometimes been
attributed to Antonio Perez.) See also
the remarkably similar pessimistic
survey by the duke of Medina Sidonia
from 1598 printed in Pierson, Commander
of the Armada, 217—18.
338 Notes to pp. Ill—19
4 ‘The Great Bog of Europe’: the
Netherlands,
1. IVDJ 82/444 duke of Sessa (Spanish
ambassador in Rome) to Don
Balthasar de Zuniga (Spanish ambassador
in Brussels), 28 Sept. 1600,
minute; and Mulder, Journael van
Antonis Duyck, II, 785 (my thanks to
Ben Cox for this reference, which
forms the conclusion to Duyck’s diary
for the year 1600).
2. See the details in Parker, Military revolution,
chap. I and ‘Afterword’.
3. See Kennedy, Rise and fall, chap. 2.
Inevitably, this is a gross oversimplification,
but I hope it fairly represents
Kennedy’s main argument, which
offers both a brilliant synthesis of
much current research on the subject
and a chapter that is logically satisfying
and beautifully crafted.
4. Anon., The edict and decree of Phillip
king of Spain, sig. C3 (part of ‘The
answere to the edict’). The creative
arithmetic of the extract — i o to 100 is
not a sixfold increase! — is typical of
the period. Some idea of the legion
of writers (known as arbitristas) who
stressed the urgent need to overhaul
the Spanish economy may be gained
from Correa Calderon, Registro de
arbitristas.
5. See Elliott, ‘A Europe of composite
monarchies’, and pp. 91—2 above.
6. My thanks for encouragement and suggestions
for this chapter go to Steven
Glick, Fernando Gonzalez de Leon,
John F. Guilmartin, Michael Handel,
Don Higginbotham, Jeffrey McKeage,
W. H. McNeill, Williamson Murray,
Jane Ohlmeyer and Henk van Nierop.
I also owe a particular debt of gratitude
to critiques by my graduate students at
the University of Illinois and by the
members of Professor Murray’s military
history seminar at the Ohio State
University.
7. CDCV, II, 591 (see also pp. 88—9
above). The following paragraphs rest
upon Parker, Dutch Revolt, 19—41.
8. Feltham, Brief character, 1—2, 5 (probably
written in the 1620s); Brulez,
‘Het gewicht van de oorlog’, 394.
9. BL Addl 28,388/68, Don Luis de
Requesens, at the time governorgeneral
of the Netherlands, to Don
Gaspar de Quiroga, Aug. 1575.
10. Laubespine, 623-4, Francis II to La
Forest (his agent in Brussels), Oct.
1560. (See also ibid., 47, Laubespine
to Lorraine and Guise, 27 July 1559,
already suggesting that no ambassador
would be needed in Brussels.)
Ramsay, City of London, 86-8,
notes Elizabeth’s decision to close
the English embassy in Brussels in
1559-
11. Japikse, Correspondence van Willem I,
prins van Oranje, I, 143-4, Egmont to
Orange, i July 1559; Groen van
Prinsterer, Archives, ist series I,
152, Granvelle to Philip II, 10 Mar.
1563-
12. PEG, VI, 166, Granvelle to Philip II,
12 Sept. 1560. For details on the
Djerba disaster, see Vilar, Tunez, 459—
62; and Braudel, The Mediterranean,
973-87-
13. BNP Ponds frangais 15,587/3-7,
Memoire of Laubespine (former
ambassador to Philip II) to Catherine
de Medici, autumn 1563, quoting
the views of Francois Baudouin
who had just returned from the
Netherlands. For details of the
linkages between the king’s servants
in Spain and the Netherlands, see
the fine study of Lagomarsino, ‘Court
factions’. On Erasso, see Carlos
Morales, ‘El poder de los secretarios
reales’.
14. AGRB Audience 475/84, Josse de
Courtewille, Philip’s French language
secretary, to Viglius, president of the
Netherlands Privy Council, 24 May
1563.
15. GPGP, II, 487, Philip II to Gonzalo
Perez [Mar. 1565}.
16. AGS Estado 527/5, Philip II to Perez
[24 Mar. 1565]. Perez was at the time
sick in bed, and so all discussion of
how to deal with Egmont had to be
carried out in writing, thus revealing
Notes to pp. 119-24 339
exactly how the king gradually
made up his mind what to do. See
other quotations from these exchanges
on p. 42 above; and the brilliant
account in Lagomarsino, ‘Court
factions’, 98-120. On the king’s extraordinary
silence, see PEG, VIII,
192 and 263 (no letter received from
the king between Apr. and Aug.
1564)-
17. Groen van Prinsterer, Archives, I, 369,
Orange to his brother Louis, 3 Apr.
1565; Wauters, Memoires, 268,
Hopperus’s account of Egmont’s
speech to the council of State in
Brussels, 5 May 1565; Theissen,
Correspondence frangaise de Marguerite
d’Autriche, 91, Philip II to Margaret,
17 Oct. 1565. See also AGRB Audience
779/120,178 and 225, minutes of
the meeting of the Netherlands
council of State on 26 Jan., 28 June
and 3 Oct. 1565, recording news
of military developments in the
Mediterranean. I thank Paul Regan
for drawing to my attention the cheap
maps of Malta, printed by Cock in
Antwerp.
18. Gilles de Pelichy, ‘Contribution’,
103-4, Egmont to Philip II, 30 May
1566, holograph; Serrano, II, xxxvi,
provides chapter and verse for Pius’s
efforts. See also AGRB Audience 476/
139, Viglius to Charles de Tisnacq,
Philip’s principal Netherlands minister
in Madrid, 19 Aug. 1566,
minute: ‘These evils have arisen
through a lack of timely decision and
action’. For the 1566 campaign in the
Aegean and Adriatic see Braudel, The
Mediterranean, II, 1030—5.
19. AGS Estado 530, unfoL, and Enno
van Gelder, Correspondance frangaise
de Marguerite d’Autriche, II, 326—32,
Margaret to Philip II, 27 and 29 Aug.
1566. Margaret’s dramatic figures
came back to haunt her a year later:
when she urged Alba to reduce his
forces the duke angrily reminded her
of those earlier alarmist assessments:
AGRB Audience 244/72-76V, Alba’s
instruction to Francisco de Ibarra, 8
Aug. 1567.
20. UB Leiden Hs. Pap. 3/5, Alonso de
Laloo to Count Hornes, 29 Sept.
1566; other views cited on p. 90
above.
21. For the suggestion that Mediterranean
affairs held Alba back, see
Fourquevaux, I, 147—8, letter to
Charles IX, 9 Dec. 1566, and 172-9,
letter to Catherine de Medici, 18 Jan.
1567. For his march, see Parker, Dutch
Revolt, 88-90 and 99-105.
22. AA 5/69, Philip II to Alba, 7 Aug.
1567. The nuncio found out about
this decision four days later: see
Serrano, II, 177, Castagno to
Alessandrino, ii Aug. 1567; the
English ambassador divined it the
previous day (Cambridge University
Library, Ms Mm—3—8/89, Dr Man to
Cecil, 10 Aug. 1567 (‘Heare is yet no
certen notyce geven of the kynges
goyng towardes Flaunders. Whan it
will bee, or wheather it will bee at all,
God knowithe’). For a discussion of
whether or not Philip ever intended
to leave, see Serrano, II, li—lx, and
Parker, Dutch Revolt, 292 n. 28.
23. Co.Do.In., XXXVII, 84, Alba to
Philip II, 6 Jan. 1568.
24. Alava, 203-4, 273-4 and 291, Philip
II to Alava, 27 Nov. 1567, and Zayas
to same, 2 Nov. 1568 and 12 Jan.
1569. For Alba’s restrictive Instructions,
see Co.Do.ln., IV, 349 and 354,
Alba to Erasso and to Philip II, 26-27
Apr. 1567.
25. CCG, IV, 594-5 and AGS Estado •yj^l
94, Philip II to Alba, Feb. and 20 Apr.
1572, minutes. See a similarly hectoring
letter on 16 Mar. at AGS Estado
553/40. For details on the Turks’
rapid recovery after Lepanto see the
exciting new evidence in Imber,
Studies, 85—101.
26. Co.Do.ln., LXXV, 190-1, Alba to
Zayas, 12 Feb. 1573.
27. AGRB Audience 69-71, Esteban
de Ibarra’s order to withdraw garrisons,
28 Oct. 1571; CCG, IV, 146-
52, Morillon to Granvelle, 24 Mar.
1572.
28. AGRB Audience 340/31, Alba to
Bossu, 13 Feb. 1572; and AGS Estado
340 Notes to pp. 124—j
551/94, ‘Relacion de lo que se trato en
el consejo’ (in Brussels).
29. BL Addl 28,702/261—4 ‘Relacion
sobre los abuses’ (this source also
claimed that a captured Sea Beggar
captain revealed that ‘the rebels were
discussing a descent on Brill or one of
the islands’ long before it happened);
AGRB Audience 404/139, Zweveghem
to Alba, London, 25 Mar. 1572; Audience
340/68, Alba to Bossu, 2 Apr.
1572, minute. The capture of Brill
became known in Brussels two days
later: see Audience 340/70, Alba to
'W'acken, ‘Vendredy Sainct’ [=4 Apr.]
1572, minute, noting the arrival of
the news ‘this morning’.
30. AGRB Audience 340/72, 79, 81 and
105, Bossu to Alba, 2,3,4 7 Apr.
1572. See also correspondence on the
subject in the Nieuwe Rotterdamsche
Courant, Zaterdagse Bijvoedsel, 22 June
and I July 1988.
31. AGRB Audience 344/21 and 29, Bossu
to Alba, both dated 23 May 1572.
On the superior fortifications of
Enkhuizen, see Groenveld and
Vermaere, ‘Zeeland en Holland en
1569’, 163.
32. See Co.Do.In., LXXV, 104—6, Julian
Romero to Gabriel de Zicyds, 22 Sept.
1572, noting that sixteen days’ battery
had made virtually no impression
on the city’s walls. Another source
reported sixty guns deployed against
Mons: CCG, IV, 383, 447, Morillon
to Granvelle, 28 July and 28 Sept.
1572.
33. See the standard account of the Nassau
brothers’ negotiations with the
Huguenots in van Herwerden, Het
verblijf van Lodewijk van Nassau in
Frankrijk, with a few additional data
in Jouanna, Le Devoir de revolte, 154—6.
For fears thar France would declare
war, see the pessimistic letters in
March, El Comendador Mayor de
Castilla, 153-5, Requesens, governor
of Lombardy, to Don Juan de Zuniga,
29 June 1572; and Epistolario, III,
160-3, Alba to Philip, 18 July 1572.
In Madrid, Ambassador Sauli of Genoa
also believed that France would soon
declare war: ASG A^ 2414, unfoL, letters
ro Genoa of 25 May, 27 June and
2 July 1572; and Dona, 487-9, letrer
to Venice of 12 June 1572.
34. CCG, IV, 351, Morillon to Granvelle,
10 Aug. 1572.
35. AGRB Audience 344/83, Alba to
Bossu, 15 June 1572, minute, and
Audience 313/303—4, council of
Gelderland to Alba, 28 June 1572,
protesting against his order of the
25th to recall Meghen’s regiment.
Meanwhile, in the light of the capture
of Zurphen, the governor of Friesland
refused ro release any troops to
Holland: Audience 297/162, Baron
Billy to Alba, 16 June 1572.
36. AGRB Audience 344/88, 135, 169,
Bossu to Alba, 17 June, 5 and 18 July
1572 (the last in reply to Alba’s
express order ‘ceste rroisieme fois’:
ibid., fo. 164, Alba to Bossu, 17 July,
minute). Bossu finally complied a
week letter, reporring rhat the rebels
had immediately occupied all places
abandoned by the Spaniards: ibid., fo.
174, Bossu to Alba, 26 July 1572.
37. Epistolario, III, 169, Alba to Philip II,
19 July 1572, vividly described the
defeat of the French column; Esrebe,
Tocsin pour un massacre, analyses the
events before, during and after 24
Aug.; Groen van Prinsterer, Archives,
ist series. III, 505 and IV, cii. Orange
to Count John, 21 Sept. 1572,
lamented the impact of St
Bartholomew on his cause.
38. CCG, IV, 413, Morillon to Granvelle,
2 Sept. 1572, and Eguiluz, Milicia,
discurso y regia militar, fo. 68, both
recorded Alba’s gay artire; Epistolario,
III, 203, Alba to Philip II, 9 Sept.
1572, described the battle outside
Mons; Co.Do.In., LXXV, 104—6,
Romero to Zayas, 22 Sept. 1572,
noted Orange’s letter advising Mons
to surrender; and CCG, IV, 479,
Morillon to Granvelle, 31 Oct. 1572,
explained why it did so.
39. ASP CF 109, unfoL, Don Sancho de
Londono (the senior field officer in
Alba’s army) ro the duke of Parma, 21
Nov. 1568; see also the admiring
Notes to pp. i2j—^o 341
account of Alba’s proceedings by Don
Bernardino de Mendoza, an eyewitness:
Comentarios, 441. Don Juan de
Zuniga later praised Alba’s refusal to
stake everything on the outcome of
a battle (Nueva Co.Do.In., I, 133-9,
letter to Requesens, 6 Feb. 1574).
40. Mondoucet, I, 56, letter to Charles
IX, 5 Oct. 1572; and Epistolario, III,
239, Alba to Don Juan de Zuniga,
£27] Oct. 1572. Even as the sack of
Mechelen continued, delegates from
Oudenaarde, Dendermonde, Leuven,
Diesr and Tongeren all senr delegates
to surrender and ask for mercy. See
Orange’s dispirited account of the collapse
of his cause in the south: Groen
van Prinsterer, Archives, IV, 3, letter of
18 Oct. 1572. See also Parker, ‘The
laws of war’.
41. Epistolario, III, 251, Alba to Philip II,
28 Nov. 1572. See also the confirmation
in Mondoucet, I, 98-102, letter
ro Charles IX, 20 Nov. 1572.
42. See details of the 1572 Friesland campaign
in Slicher van Bath, Een Fries
landhouwbedrijf, part i; and also University
of Texas at Austin, Humanities
Research Center, Kraus Catalog
124/36, a remarkable series of twentyone
sketches of the operations undertaken
by Baron Billy, governor of
Friesland. On rhe fall of Zutphen, see
the account in AGRB Audience
226, 239 and 253, Baron Hierges to
Alba, 10, II and 14 June 1572.
43. Mondoucet, I, 106—10, letter to
Charles IX, 25 Nov. 1572; Epistolario,
III, 261, Alba to Philip, 19 Dec.
1572. See also the account of
Mendoza, once again a participant:
Comentarios, 477.
44. See the perceptive consideration of this
point by Israel, The Dutch Republic.
Its rise, greatness, and fall, 179—80. See
also van Someren, Correspondance, 27—
37, 154-7 passim, with details on
the prince’s supporters in, and plans
for, the province in 1570-71.
45. On the improvised new defences of
Haarlem, with bastions and sconces
beyond the medieval walls, see the contemporary
drawings and prints in
Gemeentearchief Haarlem, Stedelijke
Atlas', and BNM Ms Res 200/38
(reproduced in Parker, ‘Maps and
Ministers’, colour plate 4).
46. Epistolario, III, 275 and 290, Alba to
Philip, 8 Jan. and 12 Feb. on
the loss of veterans; Co.Do.In., LXXV,
236-40, Alba to Zayas, 8 July 1573,
on the problems caused by having to
garrison each loyal town.
47. Mondoucet estimated that Alba’s field
army in early December had shrunk
ro 8—10,000 foor and 1,200—1,500
horse (Mondoucet, I, 119-22: letter to
Charles IX, 9 Dec. 1572). The
number of defenders is deduced from
Epistolario, III, 472, Alba to Philip II,
28 July 1573.
48. Many contemporaries commented on
this prudence; so does the admirable
modern biography by Maltby, Alba,
37-8, 55-6, 60-1 and 268-70.
49. See ibid., 79-81, and the sources on p.
332. Even twenty years later Cardinal
Granvelle, on hearing of the decision
to besiege Haarlem in winter, said
that he ‘could still feel in my bones
the chill I felt before Merz’ {CCG, IV,
553—6, Granvelle to Morillon, 18
Mar. 1573).
50. AGS Estado 559/43, ‘Relacion del
suceso y presa de la villa de Harlen’, on
Fadrique’s foolish refusal ro negotiate
with Haarlem. Others larer blamed
him as ‘the cause of all the damage
here’: see the blistering condemnation
in Nueva Co.Do.In., V, 224-35,
Requesens to Philip II, 19 Sept. 1574.
51. Wouter Jacobszoon, a monk who had
taken refuge in Amsterdam, which
remained loyal to the king, recorded
the arrival of the booty-laden Spaniards
on 3 Dec. 1572, the day after the
sack of Naarden, closely followed by
deputies from Haarlem ‘and other
places ... all asking about their own
town’. See van Eeghen, Dagboek, I, 90.
52. CCG, IV, 516, Morillon to Granvelle,
30 Nov. 1572 (quoring the Elector of
Cologne); Epistolario, III, 250—3, Alba
ro Philip, 28 Nov. 1572. The same
point was made by the perceptive
French agent: see Mondoucet, I,
342 Notes to pp. 130—3
110—13, letter to Charles IX, 28 Nov.
1572. Events vindicated all this pessimism:
as the revolt continued, foreign
assistance grew.
53. Epistolario, III, 249 and 268, Alba to
Philip, 19 Nov. and 22 Dec. 1572,
warning of his financial plight.
Wouter Jacobszoon frequently noted
the high price of victuals in his
‘journal’: see van Eeghen, Dagboek, I,
105, 131, 134 and 151.
54. AMC legajo 250, unfol., contains the
contradictory Instructions in French
and Spanish (30 Oct. and 8 Nov.
1571). For other contradiction caused
by having both French and Spanish
secretaries deal with the same issue,
see p. 25 above. The secret correspondence,
which eventually helped
to bring Alba down (see pp. 38 and
314 n. 103 above), is discussed in
IVdeDJ 44/88 and 91, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 4 Oct. and 21 Dec.
1572 (quotation from the first of these
documents).
55. IVdeDJ 44/88, Vazquez to Philip II
and reply, 4 Oct. 1572. See also
Lovett, ‘A new governor’, 91-2; and
Janssens, ‘Juan de la Cerda’, 222—7.
56. Co.Do.ln., XXXVI, 119-30.
‘Relacion de lo que ha pasado en
algunos consejos’, July to Nov. 1572,
full of the heated exchanges between
the two dukes (quotation from p.
126).
57. Berwick y Alba, Discurso, 65.
58. BPU Favre 30/30, Philip II to
Requesens, 30 Jan. I573> copy
(another copy, in Granvelle’s handwriting,
may be found at AGRB
AID 5480/15-16; precis in GCP, II,
308-9).
59. See details in Lovett, ‘A new governor’,
99-100, and March, El
Comendador Mayor de Castilla, chap.
16. Copies of Philip’s fascinating
holograph letters dated 30 Jan., 5
Apr., 21 June, 14 Aug. and 30 Oct.
1573 (the originals were destroyed
when Requesens died) may be found
in BPU Eavre 30/30-74; and copies
of his instructions (dated 3 Oct.)
in Co.Do.ln., CII, 277-306. Some of
Requesens’s replies were printed in
Co.Do.ln., Cll, 35-8, 45-6, 64-5, 74-
6 and 103-6.
60. Gerlo and de Smet, Mamixi epistulae,
I, 194-7 and 199-200, Marnix to
Count Louis, 8 June 1573, and to
Count John of Nassau, 2 July 1573;
and IVdeDJ 32/139, Medinaceli to
Mateo Vazquez, Maastricht, 20 July
1573, holograph (apparently the only
surviving example of the duke’s secret
correspondence with the king).
61. Epistolario, III, 472-3, Alba to Philip
II, 28 July 1573; Gerlo and de Smet,
Marnixi epistulae, I, 202-3, Orange to
Marnix, i Aug. 1573, holograph; and
BNM Ms 783/469-71, Granvelle to
Don John of Austria, 28 Aug. 1573
(Granvelle did not argue that the garrison
should have been spared, merely
that ‘it was not wise to dispose of
them before the end of the war: there
would have been plenty of time to
dispose of them afterwards’). For an
interesting Dutch appreciation of
Alba’s strategy of selective brutality,
and of the reasons why it failed, see
Grotius, De rebus belgicis, 65. On the
events at Haarlem, see Parker, Dutch
Revolt, 159-60; Spaans, Haarlem, 42—
6; and Groenveld and Vermaere,
‘Zeeland en Holland en 1569’, 158—9.
62. On the siege of Alkmaar, from 21
Aug. to 8 Oct. 1573, see Schoffer,
Alkmaar ontzet, chaps 2-3 (Anthony
Anthonisz’s Italian-style walls are
described at pp. 42-9). For the duke’s
misguided boast (‘no tengolo por
negocio dificultoso’), see AGS Estado
8340/242, Alba to Don John of
Austria, 18 Sept. 1573. He may have
been misled by the 1569 report of his
engineers that Alkmaar lacked strong
defences and could easily be bombarded
from some higher ground
nearby; the new bastions only went up
in 1572-73 (see Groenveld and
Vermaere, ‘Zeeland en Holland en
1569’, 159). Van Nierop, ‘The Blood
Council’, mentions the initial desire of
many citizens to surrender.
63. For some details, see Devos, ‘Un
projet de cession d’Alger’; Juste, Les
Notes to pp. 133—6 343
Valois et les Nassau] and Parker, Dutch
Revolt, 149.
64. Co.Do.ln., LXXV, 190, Alba to Zayas,
12 Feb. 1573. For more expressions of
the need to make peace in the Mediterranean
in order to concentrate on
the Netherlands, and of the king’s
counter-arguments, see p. 89 above.
65. Details in Berwick y Alba, Discurso,
76, 116—17 (statement of Francisco de
Ibarra. Although this is undated,
Ibarra arrived in the Netherlands with
the duke in 1567 and left in 1570; he
clearly wrote this document after his
departure.) See also Epistolario, III,
310-11, AlbatoZayas, 18 Mar. 1573;
CGT, VI, 1-2, Juan de Albornoz
(Alba’s principal secretary) to Zayas,
12 Feb. 1573; and Evans, The works of
Sir Roger Williams, 130 (on Balfour).
66. CGT, VI, 2-4, Zayas to Albornoz, 17
July and 21 Oct. 1573; IVdeDJ 47/
325, Requesens to Zuniga, 25 Nov.
1573; Berwick y Alba, Discurso, 124-
5, Zuniga to Philip II, 1574. Earlier,
Zayas had favoured the assassination
of other perceived enemies of Spain,
such as a refugee Spanish heretic in
Paris and the French Protestant writer
and philosopher, Peter Ramus: see
Alava, 257, Zayas to Alava, 10 Sept.
1568: ‘sera santlssima obra acabar al
herege espahol y al Pedro Ramos’. The
St Bartholomew’s Day massacre must
have made Zayas a happy priest.
67. Alava, 50, Alava’s paper of advice to
Philip II, 20 June 1574. In 1580 the
king eventually declared Orange an
outlaw and placed a price of 25,000
crowns on his head. An attempt on
his life made by one of Philip’s vassals
in 1582 almost succeeded; a second
ended it in 1584. See the documents
on the various assassination plans
assembled in CGT, VI.
68. Details from Fruin, The siege, see especially
pp. 18, 85-9, and map II (an
example of the assistance provided to
Valdes by Dutch Catholic supporters
of the crown).
69. Co.Do.ln., Cll, 350-1 and IVdeDJ 67/
205 and 211, Requesens to Zuniga,
15 Nov. 1573 and 12 Jan. and 14 Apr.
1574, on the lies that Alba and his
relatives had told him; for interesting
first-hand evidence of these lies, see
AGS Estado 2852, unfol.. Instruction
of Alba to Juan Bautista de Tassis,
sent to find Requesens and portray
the Netherlands situation in falsely
favourable terms (undated, but Oct.
1573, original). See also BL Addl
28,388/38, Granvelle to Zuniga, 19
Mar. 1574. criticizing Alba’s
policies.
70. Nueva Co.Do.ln., V, 368, Requesens to
Philip II, 6 Oct. 1574.
71. The idea was not entirely new for, as
soon as he heard about the fall of Brill,
Duke Emanuel Philibert of Savoy
(who had governed the Netherlands in
1556—59) advised the king that if all
other measures failed he should ‘break
the dikes and drown them [the rebels]
before they can get established’. The
king noted: ‘I am not sure it will be so
easy to drown them’ (AGS Estado
1233/76, Juan de Vargas Mexfa,
ambassador in Turin, to Philip II, 22
May 1572). The constant danger of
inundation in Holland during the
1570s is well described in Hart,
‘Rijnlands bestuur’.
72. For the flooding of Walcheren —
apparently the first such episode in
the war — see AGRB Audience 343/84—
5, Wacken and Beauvoir to Alba,
Middelburg, June 1572. On
the flooding of areas around Leiden, on
the building of a ravelin and sconces,
and for the heroic relief, see the excellent
account, based on local chronicles
and the archives of the Rijnland
Drainage Board, by Hart, ‘Rijnlands
bestuur’, 20-5; and the splendid
cartographic representations in van
Oerle, Leiden, II, maps 34-7. Van
Hoof, ‘Met een vijand als
bondgenoot’, asserts that although
the idea of using water-power for
military purposes was present in
1573-74, the idea of making systematic
use of it only dates from the
1670s. This ignores the Spanish evidence.
See also Scholten, Militaire
topografische kaarten, 32—4; and Brand
344 Notes to pp. 1^6—8
and Brand, De Hollandse Waterlinie,
39-80.
73. AGS Estado 560/91, Valdes to
Requesens, 18 Sept. 1574. On
Orange’s letter (to Marnix) see Fruin,
The siege, 84—5. This whole episode is
discussed, and the key documents
printed, by Waxman, ‘Strategic
terror’.
74. AGS Estado 561/122, Philip to
Requesens, 22 Oct. 1574. On the
Vietnam parallel, see Hays Park,
‘Rolling Thunder’; idem, ‘Linebacker’;
and Pape, ‘Coercive air power’. The
remarkably similar logic used by the
United States government for rejecting
the strategic bombing of the Red
River dikes in 1966 appears in Gravel,
The Pentagon papers, IV, 43—8, memorandum
of John T. McNaughton,
Assistant Secretary of Defense, 18 Jan.
1966. The innate weakness of a
strategy of ‘destroying in order to
save’, which is so often either selfdefeating
or morally abhorrent (or
both), was admirably perceived by von
Clausewitz, On war, 577—612.
7 5. For the decision to destroy a few dikes,
see AGS Estado 560/1, Requesens to
Philip II, 6 Nov. 1574; ibid., fo. 40,
Electo [leader] of the Spanish mutineers
to Valdes, 24 Nov. 1574; AGRB
Audience 1733/2 fo. 411, Baron
Hierges to Requesens, 29 Nov. 1574;
and Hart, ‘Rijnlands bestuur’, 23,
26-7. Some doubted the effectiveness
of opening the sea-dikes: see CCG, V,
512—14, Amsterdam City Council to
Requesens, 8 Nov. 1574, claiming
that many ‘innocent’ areas would be
flooded and thus lost to both the king
and the Catholic church, whereas the
leading rebellious cities would remain
unaffected. On the other hand, the
consequences of systematic inundation
may be judged from the history of
the Zijpe polder, flooded by the Dutch
to save Alkmaar in 1573: reclamation
only began in 1597 and continued
for over a century: see Zijp,
‘Hoofdstukken’.
76. AGS Estado 562/74, Requesens to
Philip, 10 May 1575. On the 1575
campaign in Waterland, see van
Nierop, ‘The Blood Council’.
77. Alcocer, Consultas del consejo de Estado,
258—64, ‘Sobre el remedio general de
Flandes’, 26 Nov. 1602, ‘votos’ of the
marquis of Velada (who recalled the
1574 debate with uncanny accuracy)
and the count of Chinchon; and ibid.,
280—1, Philip Ill’s approval. In the
1620s Augustus Bredimus, an engineer,
and in the 1630s Michel van
Langren, a geographer, both proposed
diverting the course of the Rhine in
order to flood parts of South Holland
and thus open the rest to Spain’s
troops: AHN Estado libro 714, unfoL,
‘La Junta en 8 de febrero, , on
the Bredimus plan (this volume contains
a number of interesting ‘alternative
strategies’ discussed in 1627—28);
and AGRB Conseilprive espagnol
227—9 264—6, ‘Aviso’ of van
Langren. Neither plan seems to have
received serious consideration.
78. Mondoucet, I, 130, letter to Charles
IX, 21 Dec. 1572; BNM Ms 1749/
361—79, memorial of Alonso
Gutierrez, 23 Oct. 1577. For some
other Spanish appreciations of the
need to achieve naval mastery at this
time, see AGS Estado 1236/24,
Requesens to Philip II, 23 Feb. 1573;
IVdeDJ 67/203, Requesens to
Zuniga, 14 Dec. 1573; Nueva
Co.Do.In., I, 31—2, Zuniga to
Requesens, 9 Jan. 1574; IVdeDJ 76/
505—6, anonymous memorandum on
the need to control the North Sea,
1575; AGS Estado 578/119-21, opinions
voiced at the council of State,
14-23 June 1578; CCG, X, 239,
Granvelle to Broissia, 7 June 1583;
and XII, 169, Granvelle to Charles of
Mansfeld, 18 Apr., 1586. Even poets
advocated creating a navy because
conquering the Dutch by land ‘would
be to confront the impossible’: see
Aldana’s ‘Octavas’ in his Obras
completas, 17-56, especially pp. 33—4
and 40—1.
79. See Mendoza, Comentarios, 449 (on
Veere); Epistolario, III, 115, Alba
to Philip II, 23 May 1572 (on
Notes to pp. 1^8—40 345
Enkhuizen); and CCG, IV, 369,
Morillon to Granvelle, 16 Aug. 1572
(on Zierikzee).
80. See AGRB Audience 344/95 and 135,
Bossu to Alba, 20 June and 5 July
1572.
81. By March 1574 barely 1,000 sailors
manned the royal fleet in the Scheldt -
only thirty ships, many of them small:
see AGRB Audience 1690/1, unfoL,
‘Relacion de . . . el Armada de Su
Magestad que esta en Amberes’. For
its cost, see AGS Estado 557/38,
Requesens to Philip, 25 Jan. 1574
(including an interesting comparison
with the cost-basis of the king’s Mediterranean
fleet). See also Gerlo and
de Smet, Marnixi epistulae, I, 191—3,
Marnix to John of Nassau, 5 May
^573> listing the ships and guns
gained from the royal fleet in a battle
off Zealand.
82. Spain had in fact managed to send
battle squadrons into the North Sea in
the 1550s, especially in conjunction
with the Royal Navy while Philip was
king of England; but by 1572 this
capacity had been lost. On the development
of an Atlantic fleet see the
data provided by Casado Soto and
Thompson in Rodriguez-Salgado and
Adams, England, Spain and the Gran
Armada, 70—133, especially pp. 70—1
and 98-9; Thompson, War and
government, part 3; Barkman,
‘Guipuzcoan shipping in 1571’; Pi
Corrales, Felipe IF, and Goodman,
Spanish naval power.
83. For Alba’s expectations, and their disappointment,
see Epistolario, III, 267-
70 and 305-6, Alba to Philip II, 22
Dec. 1572 and 18 Mar. 1573. The
chief pilot’s opinion is printed in
Co.Do.In., LXXV, 35~8. The potential
for using galleys based in Flanders
was amply demonstrated by the
success of the squadron operated by
Federigo Spinola in the early seventeenth
century out of Dunkirk: see
Gray, ‘Spinola’s galleys’.
84. Two expeditions sailed to regain
Florida, one of eight ships in 1565 and
the second of seventeen ships in 1566;
see Lyon, The enterprise of Florida
{passim). Even this venture cost
275,000 ducats (ibid. pp. 181-3). See
also the documents concerning the
embargo of forty-seven ships for the
king s planned expedition to Flanders
in 1567 quoted in Parker, Dutch Revolt,
292, n. 28, and the accounts in
AGS CS 2a/i97.
85. See the documents cited in Pi
Corrales, Espana, 89, 103 and 181-4,
and 191-6.
86. IVdeDJ 53/3/64, Philip II to
Vazquez, 17 May 1574 (on
Menendez’s pessimism). See also AGS
Estado 557/84, Requesens to Philip II,
5 Mar. 1574; Estado 2852, unfoL,
Menendez to Juan Bautista de Tassis,
31 Aug. 1574; and Estado 2546/83,
Requesens’s Instruction to Tassis, 6
Sept. 1574 (on where Menendez
might land).
87. BMO, I, 92-6, Menendez to Philip II
and reply, 15 and 24 Aug. 1574.
88. Pi Corrales, Espana, 214-17,
Menendez to Pedro Menendez
Marquez, 8 Sept. 1574 (with the
remarkable news that Philip had
ordered his fleet — 150 ships and
12,000 men — ‘to assist where it was
most needed’: the Netherlands or the
Mediterranean); and 218-21, Philip
II to Requesens, 24 Sept. 1574.
89. ‘More than half a million’ spent on the
Armada de Santander’ in the course of
1574 according to the president of the
council of Finance: IVdeDJ 24/103,
‘Parecer de Juan de Ovando’, 25 Mar.
1575 (but see also AGS Estado 561/83,
Zayas to Requesens, 25 June 1574,
claiming the fleet had already cost
600,000). Other details on the fleet
from Pi Corrales, Espana, chaps 5—10.
Requesens took the news to abort the
venture relatively well: ‘I really do not
know , he told the king philosophically,
how it would have been possible
to do everything in the time
available, even if Menendez had had
the winds and the sea at his command’
(AGS Estado 560/8, Requesens to
Philip, 6 Nov. 1574). Fifty ships from
the fleet did leave in 1575, but their
346 Notes to pp. 140—^
orders envisaged only the transport
of troops to Flanders: see p. 164
above.
90. AHN OM 3510, unfol. [Luis de
Torres] to Granvelle, Monreale, 27
Oct. 1577, reviewing Spain’s strategy
in the Netherlands over the previous
decade. For Philip’s condemnation of
the French policy of concessions, see
p. 93 above.
91. Quotations from Epistolario, III, 474-
8, Alba to Philip II, 29 July 1573; and
AGS Estado 554/146, Requesens to
Philip II, 30 Dec. 1573 (citing Alba’s
‘hawkish’ views).
92. AA 8/45, Philip II to Alba, 8 July
1573; the dorse recorded the date of
receipt (19 Aug.), yet the duke did not
reply until the 30th. Actually even
Alba had inclined briefly towards
mercy slightly earlier: see p. 133
above.
93. Epistolario, III, 493 and 502-4, Alba
to Philip II, 30 and 31 Aug. 1573.
94. BPU Favre 30/71-4, Philip II to
Requesens, 20 Oct. 1573, copy of
the holograph original; Co.Do.In., CII,
323, Philip II to Alba, 21 Oct. 1573;
ibid., 277-306, Instructions for
Requesens; and AGS Estado 554/146,
Requesens to Philip II, 30 Dec. 1573,
regretting the prohibitions they
contained.
95. See CGT, III, 81-7, copies of four
letters from Orange to Julian Romero
(they had served together in 1559-
60), 7-10 Nov. 1573; the originals
may be found in BPU Favre 60/43-9.
See also Gerlo and de Smet, Mamixi
epistulae, I, 213—18, Orange to
Marnix, 28 Nov. 1573. Orange had
made his terms clear several months
earlier: see Rowen, The Low Countries,
45-6, Orange to his brothers, 5 Feb.
1573-
96. See GCP, III, 437 n. 2, Noircarmes to
Alba, 14 Nov. 1573, and Alba’s reply
on the 22nd; ibid., 437-8,
Noircarmes to Requesens, 24 Dec.
1573, with Requesens’s reply of the
29th (which expressly prohibited any
contact with Orange); and 450—1,
Requesens to Philip II, 30 Dec. 1573
on why the talks must be discontinued.
See also BPU Favre 60/65—7,
Noircarmes to Alba, together with the
explanatory note by Juan de Albornoz
(Alba’s principal secretary) to
Requesens, 24 Dec. 1573.
97. AGS Estado 561/25, ‘Consulta de
negocios de Flandes’, 24 Feb. 1574
(see also p. 321 n. 43 above). On the
General Pardon, see Janssens, Brabant
in het verweer, 208—29; *^he exploratory
talks of 1574 are expertly surveyed by
Gachard in CGT, III, xxxvif and 373—
430; the various attempts to betray
towns by van Nierop, ‘The Blood
Council’.
98. IVdeDJ 67/28ya, Vazquez to Philip II
and reply, 28 June 1574. For an
example of harassment in the cause
of peace, see AGS Estado 560/12,
Requesens to Philip II, 18 Dec. 1574.
For evidence that the council of State
recognized the justice of some of the
Dutch demands, see AGS Estado 568/
38 and 49, consultas of 23 and 27 Jan.
1575-
99. IVdeDJ 67/106, Requesens to
Zuniga, 9 July 1575; and ibid., fo.
271, Requesens to the count of
Monteagudo (Spanish ambassador in
Vienna), 6 Mar. 1575. AGS Estado K
1537/23, Requesens to Don Diego de
Zuniga, 23 Mar. 1575, copy, gives a
good overview of his negotiating position
at Breda.
100. The same dilemma undermined peace
talks in 1577, 1579, 1589, 1598,
1607—9, 1629 and 1632: see details in
Parker, Dutch Revolt, 182, 195 and
223 for the sixteenth century; and in
Israel, The Dutch Republic and the Hispanic
world, II, 225 and 242 for the
seventeenth.
101. As yet no adequate study of the Conference
of Breda exists, but see
Janssens, Brabant in het verweer, 230—
54. On the role of the talks in
strengthening the internal cohesion of
the Dutch, see Lademacher, Die
Stellung des Prinzen von Oranien, chap.
3-
Notes to pp. 143—9 347
102. IVdeDJ 53/3/87 and 77, Philip II to
Mateo Vazquez, 4 and 18 July 1574.
103. IVdeDJ 37/72, Requesens to Zuniga,
12 Nov. 1575.
104. See details in Parker, Dutch Revolt,
173-8.
105. GCP, IV, 425—6, note written by the
king and given to Don John of Austria
before he left Madrid on 18 Oct.
1576: enphasis added. See also the
documents from earlier in the year
cited in Kamen, Philip, 156.
106. AGS Estado 2843/3, Philip II to Don
John, 31 Jan. 1577. For the sequel, see
Parker, Dutch Revolt, 181.
107. On the settlement in the Netherlands,
see Parker, Dutch Revolt, 179—82; on
the demobilization of the fleet, see
BPU Favre 28/83-101, Philip II to
the duke of Sessa, 27 Dec. 1576 (two
long letters). In fact William of
Orange managed to obtain a copy of
Don John’s Instructions, thus greatly
enhancing his ability to exploit
Spain’s temporary weakness: see Sutherland,
‘William of Orange’, 222—4.
108. Porreno, Historia del Serentssimo Senor
Don Juan, 212: Don John to the
officers and soldiers returned from the
Netherlands, 15 Aug. 1577; AGS
Estado 1247/133, Philip II to
Ayamonte, governor of Lombardy, 28
Aug. 1577; and AGS Estado 571/56,
Philip II to Don John, i Sept. 1577.
The king, however, had already begun
to waver. The previous day he signed
a letter warning the governor of
Lombardy to get the Spanish veterans
- who were about to depart for Spain -
ready to return to the Netherlands if
necessary (IVdeDJ 47/16, Philip II to
Ayamonte, 31 Aug. 1577) and a few
days later he resolved to send them
(AGS Estado 2843/7, consulta of the
council of State, 5 Sept. 1577, noting
that he had already issued the orders).
For these same events from his
brother ’s point of view, see the important
letters at IVdeDJ 36/20-1, Don
John to Don Juan de Zuniga, 6 and 30
Sept. 1577.
109. Feltham, Brief character, 90—3.
j The ‘British Problem’, ijj8—
83
1. Wernham, Making of English foreign
policy, I. Many thanks to Glyn
Redworth for reading and commenting
on this chapter.
2. Lutz, Christianitas Afflicta, 208—9,
provides the best discussion of the
implications of the Tudor marriage.
He notes that it affected not only
France, but also Charles’s brother
Ferdinand because it ended all hope
that the latter might inherit the
Netherlands and made it clear that
the Spanish Habsburgs would be more
powerful than their Austrian cousins.
Small wonder that in 1553 Ferdinand
tried to interest Mary Tudor in marrying
one of his sons (Fichtner,
Ferdinand I, 178—9).
3. HHStA Spanien Varia 2/59-62, report
of Christophe d’Assonleville, Dec.
1558. For further ‘domino theories’,
see pp. 89-90 above.
4. See AGS Estado 8334/186, ‘[Lo]
platicado y conferido por los del
consejo de Estado’ [Jan. 1559} (the
slur on Elizabeth’s birth referred to
Henry VIII’s ‘adulterous’ marriage to
Anne Boleyn); AMC 7/249/11-12,
Philip II toFeria, 10 and 28 Jan. 1559,
holograph; and Gonzalez, ‘Apuntamientos’,
405-7, Philip to Feria,
10 Jan. 1559. See also Rodriguez-
Salgado, Changing face, 319, and
Rodriguez-Salgado and Adams, ‘The
count of Feria’s dispatch’.
5. AMC 7/249/12, Philip II to Feria, 21
Mar. 1559, holograph. Two days later
Philip formally announced that he
would not marry Elizabeth Tudor.
Some also saw Philip’s marriage to
Mary Tudor in 1554 as a ‘sacrifice’ for
religion and defence: CoDoln, III, 350,
Ruy Gomez to Erasso, 29 July 1554.
6. AGS CJH 34/477 Feria to Ruy Gomez
de Silva, 6 Mar. 1559, holograph. On
the partition plan, see Rodriguez-
Salgado, Changing face, 332.
7. Fernandez Alvarez, Tres embajadores,
348 Notes to pp. 149—33
222-3, ‘Pares^er’ of Alba, Granvelle
and Ruy Gomez, mid-Mar. 1559. In
the event Philip sent 20,000 ducats to
Feria, and promised 40,000 more
(ibid., 43).
8. Ibid., 268, Philip II to Feria, 23 Mar.
1559-
9. See Romano, ‘La pace di Cateau-
Cambresis’, 540; Merriman, ‘Mary,
queen of France’, 45—8; and
Rodriguez-Salgado, Changing face,
331-7-
10. Fernandez Alvarez, Tres embajadores,
64, Philip II to Juana, 23 June 1559,
and 253—4, her reply of 13 July (with
irritated royal apostils); BPM Ms II-
2320/124, Granvelle to Juan Vazquez
de Molina, 21 July 1559.
11. See the brilliant reconstruction of
Philip’s policy towards England during
1558-59 in Rodriguez-Salgado,
Changing face, 323—53. Note also the
important corroboratory evidence in
IVdeDJ 67/1, Don Luis de Requesens
to Andres Ponce, Jan. 1574, minute
(claiming that the king could have
supported at least two plots in 1559)
and KB Ms 78 E 9/12—15, ‘Parecer
sobre las cosas . . . de Inglaterra’, confirming
that Alba did indeed compose
the document of 10 July 1559, cited
by Rodriguez-Salgado at p. 333.
12. Teulet, Relations politiques, V, 59—60,
Philip II to Don Frances de Alava, 26
June 1570. This offers a striking confirmation
of Robert Jervis’s remarks
on the distorting impact of first-hand
experience on statesmen: Jervis, Perception
and misperception, 240—52.
13. On the lessons drawn by Philip (and
doubtless Alba) from their residence
in Britain, see Redworth, ‘Felipe IF,
106; on the different perspectives of
Brussels and Madrid in the 1560s,
see Ramsay, The queen’s merchants, 200.
The same divergence recurred during
the government of Don John of
Austria and the duke of Parma (pp.
54—5 and 145 above), and even more
under the Archdukes: see Allen, ‘The
strategy of peace’.
14. Fernandez Alvarez, Tres embajadores,
73 Granvelle to Gonzalo Perez,
5 Dec. 1559; Laubespine, 387, Francis
II and the Guises to Laubespine, 21
May 1560.
15. Fernandez Alvarez, Tres embajadores,
242—6, Philip’s instruction to M. de
Glajon, Mar. {?] 1560. See also ASP
CF 107, unfoL, Tomas de Armenteros
to Parma, 26 Feb. 1560; and AGRB
Audience 778/34, minutes of the
council of State, Brussels, 25 Oct.
1560. These sources entirely contradict
the account, based exclusively on
English records, presented by
Wernham, Before the Armada, 256.
16. The role of distance in Erance’s Scottish
failure emerges clearly from
Laubespine, 14 (Instruction of Francis
II to an envoy going to Edinburgh, 16
July 1559, asking for ‘an express courier
to be sent every five or six days to
keep me aware of all that is happening’)
and 423—4 (commanders at Leith
to Catherine de Medici, 9 July 1560,
apologizing for their surrender but
reminding her that they had received
no relief and languished ‘300 leagues
away from the place from which we
had expected counsel and advice’).
Distance also affected English policy:
Elizabeth almost sabotaged her
successful Scottish policy by foolishly
trying at the last moment to make a
safe-conduct for French withdrawal
conditional on the return of Calais:
fortunately for her (and the Scots Protestants)
a deal had been struck at Leith
before her new demands arrived (see
MacCaffrey, Shaping of the Elizabethan
regime, 66—7).
17. For more on Philip’s ‘British policy’ in
1560—61, see PEG, VI, 5—8 and 91—4,
Granvelle to Philip II, 16 Jan. and
20 May 1560, and 152, Philip II to
Granvelle, 7 Sept. 1560. Spain’s
financial predicament appears clearly
in the king’s holograph ‘Memorial de
las finanzas de Espana’, ibid., 156-65.
See also Romano, ‘La pace di Cateau-
Cambresis’, 542-6, and Fernandez
Alvarez, Felipe 11, 343-70.
18. CSPSp., I, 228, Philip II to Alvaro de
la Quadra, 9 Feb. 1562.
19. KB Ms 78 E 9/24-8, ‘Parecer de Su
Notes to pp. 133—j 349
Excelencia sobre cosas de Inglaterra y
Scocia’ (Aug. 1562); AGRB Audience
778/211, minutes of the council of
State, Brussels, 13 Jan. 1563, also discussed
offering mediation.
20. Co.Do.ln., XCVIII, 481-2, Philip II
to Luna, his ambassador at Trent, 8
Aug. 1563 (he also wrote in similar
vein to the pope). On the trade war of
1563—65 see Ramsay, City of London,
191—283; AGRB Audience 779/38,
minutes of the council of State, Brussels,
20 May 1564; and Wells, ‘Antwerp
and the government of Philip IF,
277—300. On Mary’s first letter, see de
Tome, Don Juan d’Autriche, I, 7—18
(note that Philip declared himself
willing to discuss Mary’s marriage
either to his son Don Carlos or his
cousin Archduke Charles).
21. CSPSp., II, 3, Philip II to Guzman de
Silva, 4 Feb. 1568.
22. Serrano, II, 360, Philip II to Don Juan
de Zuniga, his ambassador in Rome, 8
Mar. 1568. See the excellent account
of this incident in Bell, ‘John Man’.
See also Man’s own account of how
Feria became his enemy (and his
alarming prediction that Philip might
stop off in England on his northward
voyage) in Cambridge University
Library, Ms Mm—3—8/83, Man to
William Cecil, 15 June 1567.
23. BMO, I, 1—4, Philip’s Instructions to
Spes, 28 June 1568; CSPSp., II, 71,
Philip II to Alba, 15 Sept. 1568.
However, Guzman de Silva had by
then already begun a secret correspondence
with Mary (ibid., 74,
Guerau de Spes to Philip II, 24 Sept.
1568, reporting the arrival of two
ciphered letters from Mary to
Guzman, which Spes could not read
‘as the latter has not left his cipher or
even told me that he had one with
her’).
24. CSPSp, II, 89, Spes to Philip II, 18
Dec. 1568; Dona, 445, letter to
Venice, ii Mar. 1572.
25. For Elizabeth’s promises regarding
Hawkins, see CSPSp., II, i, 17 and
73—4, Guzman de Silva to Philip II, 3
Jan. and 27 Mar. 1568, and Spes to
Philip II, 24 Sept. 1568. For the truth
see Williamson, Hawkins of Plymouth,
100-56.
26. For details see Read, ‘Queen Elizabeth’s
seizure of the duke of Alva’s
pay-ships’; the subsequent account by
Spes in BMO, I, 71—2 (noting that two
of the five ‘pay-ships’ managed to
reach Antwerp); and the analysis of
Ramsay, The queen’s merchants, 90—
III, and MacCaffrey, Shaping of the
Elizabethan regime, 188—95.
27. For the general decline in England’s
embassies and other sources of foreign
intelligence under Elizabeth, see
Wernham, Making of English foreign
policy, 58, and Haynes, Invisible power,
13-14.
28. Alava, 301-2 and 317, Philip II to
Alava, 18 Feb. and 20 Mar. 1569;
CSPSp., II, 109, Philip II to Alba, 18
Feb. 1569; and Gomez del Campillo,
Negociaciones con Francia, XI, 394,
Philip II to Mary Stuart, 28 Feb.
1569.
29. Alava, 317, Philip II to Alava, 20
Mar. 1569; AHN OM 3511/4,
‘Consideraciones de Don Guerau de
Spes sobre la forma que podria tener
para la empresa de Inglaterra’,
London, 31 May 1569 (this is the
original document summarized in
CSPSp., II, 157-8). See also Kouri,
England, chap. 4, on the assembly of
all the major Protestant princes at
Erfurt in Sept. 1569; and Thorp,
‘Catholic conspiracy’.
30. See CSPSp., II, 122-32,
d’Assonleville’s report of Mar. 1569,
160—3, Alba to Philip II, 12 June
1569 (requesting full powers to negotiate
with Elizabeth), and 177, Philip
II to Alba, 19 July 1569 (delegating
them). Ramsay, The queen’s merchants,
200, pointed out that the English
government never seems to have realized
its advantage: it always assumed
that Alba slavishly followed the policies
decreed by Philip in Spain.
31. CSPSp., II, 132-3, Alba to Philip II,
10 Mar. 1569, and 150, Philip II to
Alba, 15 May 1569; and Co.Do.ln.,
XC, 187-9, Philip II to Elizabeth,
350 Notes to pp. i^y—6i
undated but probably also 15 May
1569.
32. BMO, I, 34-5, Pius V to Alba, 3 Nov.
1569, and 38-9, Philip II to Alba, 16
Dec. 1569. For proof that the pope did
not tell Philip of his commission to
Alba, see ibid., 43, Philip II to Alba,
22 Jan. 1570.
33. BMO, I, 35, Alba to Don Juan de
Zuniga, Philip’s ambassador in Rome,
4 Dec. 1569. See also ibid., 36, Alba
to Philip II, II Dec. 1569, and the
interesting discussion of the duke’s
position in Maltby, Alba, 197—8.
34. See the excellent discussion of the
pope’s motives in Edwards, The marvellous
chance, 403—7, suggesting that
the trigger was an anonymous letter
from England calling for excommunication
in the name of all English
Catholics. Its author may well have
been Roberto Ridolfi, who later
ensured that the Bull became known
in England. Pius only told the Spanish
ambassador in Rome of his intention
to excommunicate Elizabeth six weeks
after he had done so: see Serrano, III,
291, Ziihiga to Philip, 10 Apr. 1570
(he signed the Bull on 25 Feb. and
sent it to the duke of Alba on 30
Mar.).
35. BMO, I, 42, Philip II to Alba, 22 Jan.
1570: a most remarkable letter which,
in the original, covers twenty-two
sides of paper.
36. BMO, I, 43-7, Alba to Philip II, 23
and 24 Feb. 1570 (Maltby, Alba, 200-
I, mis-dates these documents to
1571)-
37. Teulet, Relations politiques, V, 57,
Philip II to Alava, 17 May 1570;
CSPSp., II, 254-5, Philip II to Spes,
30 June 1570.
38. Whether or not Ridolfi was a doubleagent,
he certainly betrayed all the
conspirators, (i) From the start,
Ridolfi, his English contacts and Spes
all used the same cipher (CSPSp, II,
III, Spes to Alba, 29 Feb. 1569), so
that once Elizabeth had acquired the
key from one of Ridolfi’s servants, she
could read everybody’s mail, (ii)
Ridolfi regularly wrote unciphered
letters to Mary as he moved from
Brussels to Rome and Madrid, keeping
her up to date on the progress of
the plot, and thereby (since all Mary’s
mail was intercepted and read) keeping
Elizabeth up to date too. On the
probablility that Ridolfi had been
‘turned’, see Edwards, The marvellous
chance, 86.
39. BMO, I, 52-3, Elizabeth to Philip II,
20 Mar. 1571, and 54-5, account of a
meeting between Elizabeth’s envoy
(Sir Henry Cobham) and Feria, 8 June
1571. These documents make clear
that Cobham had been authorized to
arrange a new exchange of ambassadors,
and to pave the way to a settlement
of the trade dispute; the account
in Wernham, Before the Armada, 308,
seems too harsh.
40. Quotations from Collinson, The
English captivity, 42-3, Burghley to
Shrewsbury, Mary’s custodian, 5 Sept.
1571; details of this aspect of the plot
from CSPScot, IV, 30-2, bishop of
Ross to Burghley, 9 Nov. 1571. If
Mary had somehow managed to reach
Hawkins, he would presumably have
‘conveyed’ her back to gaol.
41. AGS Estado 0-8, consul ta of the
council of State, 7 J uly 15 71 (a remarkable
document which records the substance
of each councillor’s views at two
meetings of the council, and a further
interview with Ridolfi, all on the same
day); and AA 7/58, Philip II to Alba,
14 July 1571 (ordering immediate invasion
and the capture or killing of
Elizabeth, just as the council had recommended
the previous week). For the
Spanish naval component, see AGS GA
187/157, Martin de Bertendona (who
was to have commanded the fleet) to
Philip II, 5 Aug. 1586; and Co.Do.In.,
XXXVI, 5-7, review of Medinaceli’s
fleet of forty-four vessels, held back at
Santander throughout 1571 in order to
take part in the invasion (see pp. 130-
I above).
42. BMO, I, 57-8, Philip II to Alba, 4
Aug. 1571; and CSPScot, IV, 274-5,
‘Five cases shewed against the queen
of Scottes’, Apr. 1572, charge 2 (an
Notes to pp. 161—^ 351
admirable summary of the plot). For
Hawkins, see Williamson, Hawkins
of Plymouth, 177-88, and Gonzalez,
‘Apuntamientos’, 364-5, ‘Lo que se ha
tractado’ between Feria and George
Fitzwilliam, in the name of ‘Juan
Aquins’, 10 Aug. [1571] (original at
BZ 15 3/15 3). In return for his bogus
offer Hawkins apparently managed to
secure the release of many of his shipmates
captured at San Juan de Uliia in
1568.
43. AKA Staten Generaal 12,548, loketkas
14B/14, Philip II to Alba, 30 Aug.
1571. Some of this money — unlike
the army and the fleet — did actually
arrive: see CSPScot, IV, 60-1, 168—9
and 226—8. For Stukeley’s involvement,
see Tazon, ‘The menace’.
Edwards, The marvellous chance, chap.
5, suggests that Stukeley too might
have been a double-agent. This seems
less likely, although at a suspiciously
early stage he did recommend a deal
with Hawkins, ‘who is very much my
friend’ (AHN OAl 3511/10, Stukeley
to Philip II, Madrid, 15 Mar. 1570).
44. BMO, I, 57-64, Philip II to Alba, 4
Aug. 1571, the duke’s reply on the
27th, and Philip’s final effort to get
action on 14 Sept, (for further quotations
from this letter, see pp. 105-6
above). See also ARA Staten Generaal
12,548, loketkas 14B/14, Philip II to
Alba, 30 Aug. 1571, and to Spes on
the same day, summarized in CSPSp.,
II, 333-4.
45. Collinson, The English captivity, 42—3,
Burghley to Shrewsbury, 5 Sept.
1571, a most important document. It
may have been written upon receipt of
Hawkins’s letter of the previous day,
enclosing a copy of his ‘contract’ with
Feria: see the text in Williamson,
Hawkins of Plymouth, 185—6. Some of
Elizabeth’s information on Spain’s
intentions also came from Florence
(see de Tome, Don Juan d’Autriche, II,
94n; and IVdeDJ 67/1, Requesens to
Andres Ponce, Jan. 1574), and from
Scotland (see CSPScot, IV, no—i,
‘Artykles of the Lord Seton’s
negotyatyng wythe the duke of Alva’).
46. On the later career of Ridolfi, see
Edwards, The marvellous chance, 373—7;
on Stukeley, see Tazon, ‘The menace’.
On events in England in 1569-71, see
MacCaffrey, Shaping of the Elizabethan
regime, 199—295. For an overview
of the plot, see Kretzschmar,
Invasionsprojekte, 5—45. Elizabeth
probably did not know that Philip had
planned to assassinate her as well as
depose her.
47. See the documents in Pollitt, Arming
the nation, and idem, ‘Contingency
planning’. The proclamation restoring
trade between England and Spain,
dated 30 Apr. 1573, is reproduced in
BMO, I, 76.
48. IVdeDJ 67/1, Requesens to Andres
Ponce de Leon, Jan. 1574, copy, all
about a new project to invade England,
and quoting Alba’s justification
of Elizabeth’s hostility. For the Irish
dimension in 1574, see Pi Corrales,
Espana, 106—8 and 186—91; for the
Santander fleet, see pp. 130—i above.
49. De Tome, Don Juan d’Autriche, II, 66—
7, for the concessions of 1574-75;
PRO SP 12/105/123, Walsingham to
Burghley, 6 Oct. 1575, reporting the
arrival of ‘48 sayle of Spanyshe men of
warre’ off the coast of Devon, and the
Spanish documents about their voyage
in BMO, I, 100-6.
50. De Tome, Don Juan d’Autriche, II,
322, cardinal of Como to Ormanetto,
18 Mar. 1573.
51. See the documents quoted in Voci,
‘L’impresa’, 346 and passim.
52. See Voci, ‘L’impresa’, 356—62. For the
amazed and despairing reaction of
Don Luis de Requesens in the Netherlands
to the king’s revived interest in
invading England, see p. 106 above.
53. Voci, ‘L’impresa’, 267—72, discusses
this episode on the basis of the Vatican
records alone. For a fuller account
(which apparently Voci did not use),
see the masterly reconstruction in de
Tome, Don Juan d’Autriche, II, 80—88.
The plan of Feb. 1576, entitled De
facilitate speditionis pro recuperanda
Anglia — a title typical of the exiles’
exuberance — is printed in both Latin
352 Notes to pp. 16^—8
and in English translation by Renold,
Letters of William Allen, 284—92. See
also AGS Estado 1072/92, Don John of
Austria to Philip II, 14 Apr. 1576, on
Englefield’s efforts to enlist Spanish
support for an attempt to rescue Mary.
BMO contains nothing on the plans to
attack Elizabeth between 1575 and
1578.
54. De Tbrne, Don Juan d’Autriche, II, 88-
91 and 101—2, Philip II to Zuniga,
16 Apr. and 23 June 1576; Kamen,
Philip, 159, Philip II to Caspar de
Quiroga, 24 Aug. 1576; Voci,
‘L’impresa’, 372—8; Kretzschmar,
Invasionsprojekte, 47-63; AGS Estado
570/126—8, letters and papers of
Philip II ‘sobre lo de Inglaterra’, Nov.
1576.
55. Voci, ‘L’impresa’, 379-86; AGS
Estado 2843/3, Philip II to Don John,
31 Jan. 1577, minute.
56. AGS Estado K 1543/112, Vargas
Mexfa to Philip II, 12 Dec. 1577 (see
also Estado K 1547/135, Geronimo de
Curiel to Philip II, 10 Jan. 1578,
along the same lines); BL Cott. Cal. C.
V/97V-98, Escobedo (Don John’s
secretary) to Philip II, 9 Apr. 1577,
original, ciphered with decrypt and
English translation; Gerlo and de
Smet, Marnixi epistulae, 94-9, Marnix
to Count John of Nassau, 28 July
1577 (about these letters); and de
Tome, Don Juan dAutriche, II, 102 n.,
Zuniga to Philip II, 9 Aug. 1576.
57. Kretzschmar, Invasionsprojekte, 200—
12 offers a detailed account of the discussions
surrounding the Smerwick
expedition. See also CCG, X, 540—1,
Granvelle to Philip II and reply, 12
Sept. 1579; and ASV NS 24/612-65,
receipts for papal funds supplied to
the Smerwick expeditionary force.
58. Voci, ‘L’impresa’, 363 and 375.
59. Ih'id.,passim, offers countless examples
of sudden changes of plan, over and
above those mentioned above: should
the target be England or Ireland?
Should the launching-pad be Spain or
Flanders? Should the expedition
include the combined forces of Spain
and the Papacy or of just one?
60. De Tome, Don Juan d’Autriche, II,
101-2.
61. Ibid., II, 68 n. (letter of 4 Mar. 1575),
173 n. (27 Apr. 1578) and 208 n. 2
(30 Aug. 1578), all exemplify this
point of view.
62. The king first received news of a truce
with the Turks late in 1577: see BL
Addl 28,359/359, Pedro Velasquez to
Caspar de Quiroga, 20 Nov. 1577,
Naples. On developments in the
Netherlands, see Parker, Dutch Revolt,
183-6.
63. Quotations from Bouza Alvarez, ‘Portugal
en la Monarquia hispanica’, 82
(Castillo); and BSLE Ms P. I. 20, fos
44-5, Giovanni Battista Gesio to
Philip II, 16 Nov. 1578. See also the
equally forceful views of Pedro Salazar
de Mendoza and of Philip himself
quoted in Perena Vicente, Teoria de la
guerra, 76-7; and the further examples
of expansionist literature from these
years on p. 102 above.
64. On the numerous reports of Drake’s
progress that reached the king, see
BMO, I, 143—64; for Philip’s knowledge
of English support for Orange,
see ibid., 206-7; for Alba’s disapproval
of the Irish venture, see
Co.Do.In., XXXII, 507-10, 530-1
and 559—62; for events at Smerwick,
see O’Rahilly, The massacre at
Smerwick.
65. On Dom Antonio, son of a clandestine
marriage rather than a natural child,
see Durand-Lapie, ‘Un roi detrone’.
On the war for the Azores, see
Fernandez Duro, La conquista, and
Freitas de Meneses, Os Afores. On the
company of English defenders at
Terceira, see Cerezo Martinez, ‘La
conquista’, 19-23.
66. BNP Fonds frangais, 16,108/365, St
Gouard (French Resident at the Court
of Philip) to Catherine de Medici,
20 Aug. 1582; CCG, X, 331-2,
Granvelle to Idiaquez, 21 Aug. 1583.
67. For a discussion of new ways of portraying
St James at precisely this time,
see IVdeDJ 62/917, Duarte Nunes de
Leao to Zayas, 17 Aug. 1585.
68. BMO, I, 395—6, Santa Cruz to Philip
Notes to pp. 168—j I 353
II, 9 Aug. 1583 (see the king’s reply
dated 23 Sept., ibid., 406). See also
the poems and other triumphalist
commemorations in Fernandez Duro,
La conquista, 94-175, and the quotations
on p. 102 above.
69. See the interesting account in Hicks,
Letters and memorials, xlix-lv. See also
CSPSp, III, 382—4, Granvelle to
Philip, 4 July 1582; and Carrafiello,
‘English Catholicism’.
70. BMO, I, 406—9, Philip II to Olivares,
his ambassador in Rome, 24 Sept.
1583 (with supporting documents), in
reply to the pope’s letter of 16 Aug.
proposing the Enterprise of England;
Hicks, Letters and memorials, Iviii—lx;
and Kretzschmar, Invasionsprojekte,
^73~7 ^nd 212-15.
71. BMO, 1,405—6, Philip II to Parma, 12
Sept. 1583, asking his urgent advice
about a possible invasion; and CCG,
X, 367-9, Granvelle to Idiaquez, 23
Sept. 1583. Parma forwarded a careful
survey of the English coasts, prepared
by Robert Heighinton (a Catholic
exile) for William Allen, two months
later: BMO, I, 420—1, Parma to Philip
II, 30 Nov. 1583; AGS 1565/
120, Don Bernardino de Mendoza to
Philip II, 28 Nov. 1587. See also a
survey of Channel ports sent by Parma
in Oct. 1583: BMO, I, 412-13.
Francis Throckmorton, who sought
Spanish aid for his plot to murder
Elizabeth, was found in Nov. 1583 to
possess a list of ports and havens that
an invading army could use: this may
have been a copy of Heighinton’s
paper.
72. Lyell, ‘A commentary’, 14—25.
73. AGS Estado 1257/121, Philip II to the
governor of Milan, ii Oct. 1583; and
Kretzschmar, Invasionsprojekte, 212—
15, account of Bishop Sega to Gregory
XIII.
74. NMM Ms PH iB/435, Olivares to
Zuniga, 24 Oct. 1583, deciphered
with royal holograph apostil. The best
account of the 1582-83 invasion plan
remains Kretzschmar, Invasionsprojekte,
64-109, with supporting documents
from the Vatican archives. See also the
documents in BMO, I, 372-416, and
NMM Ms PH 1B/432V-4V, on
Philip’s invasion plans at this time.
75. See Parker, Dutch Revolt, 197, 205—7;
and Holt, The duke of Anjou, 157—9.
76. See de Tbrne, ‘Philippe II et Henri de
Guise’; AGS Estado K 1573/12, 21
and 24, Guise’s receipts for Spanish
subsidies, 24 Sept. 1582 and 24 Jan.
and 5 May 1583; Teulet, Relations
politiques, V, 261-3, Philip II to Juan
Bautista de Tassis, his ambassador in
France, 24 Sept. 1582. See also
Martin, Henry HI, 120—6.
77. Ritter, La Soeur d’Henri IV, I, 256; and
Martin, Histoire de France, IX, 520—2.
78. Davies, ‘The due de Montmorency’,
and idem, ‘Neither politique nor
patriot?’.
79. Budget projections in IVdeDJ 76/
161—2, Hernando de Vega, president
of the council of Finance, to Philip II
and reply, 24 Mar. 1582 (copy); and
68/286, same to same, 22 Aug. 1583
(‘It is good that you have begun
to discuss this large provision [of
money], and therefore proceed with it
and ensure that you do not forget
about it, since it will be the remedy
and relief of everything for the two
years to come, 1584 and 1585’). For
the background to these papers, see
Parker, The Army of Flanders, 240—1.
See also AGS CJH 223/1, budget for
1585, dated 6 Oct. 1584, extensively
annotated by Philip II.
80. AGS Estado 2217/85, untitled paper of
25 May 1584 on sending the 2 million;
ibid. 2218/28 and 49, Philip II to
Parma, i July 1585 and 18 July 1586,
for the payment by ‘tercios’ (four
months) in advance. In November
1584 the first Japanese Christians to
visit Spain reported seeing twelve
chests containing gold and silver coins
in the Madrid palace: see Sande, De
missione legatorum iaponensium, 208 (my
thanks to Francis X. Rocca for supplying
a xerox copy of this item).
81. BL Lans. 31/197—203V, Lord
Burghley’s papers on the abortive
expedition ‘to serve Dom Antonio
king of Portugal’, Aug. 1581.
Notes to pp. 171—3
82. Details from Taylor, Troublesome
voyage-, and Donno, An Elizabethan in
1382, 151. Surprisingly enough,
Thomas Hood survived and prospered:
see Johnson, ‘Thomas Hood’s
inaugural lecture’.
83. See BNP Cinq Cents Colbert 473/589,
Catherine to Michel de Castelnau,
French ambassador in London, 25 July
1584 (my thanks to Mack Holt for
this reference). See also CCG, XI,
617-19, Zuniga’s first paper of advice
on French policy in the wake of
Anjou’s death, 27-28 June 1584,
pointing out that Parma could
now concentrate on fighting the
Dutch without fearing further French
intervention.
84. On the rejoicing see CCG, XI, 58-9,
70—1 and 86—7, Idiaquez to
Granvelle, 3, 7 and 11 Aug. 1584; and
AGRB MD 5459/193, same to same,
14 Aug. 1584. On the formation
of policy, see CCG, XI, 621-32,
Zuniga’s second and third papers of
advice, together with a cover note to
Don Juan de Idiaquez, 28 June 1584
(quotation from p. 622). At the same
time, Zuniga recommended partitioning
France in order to prevent a
Huguenot succession: see AGS Estado
2855, unfol., ‘Para mayor declaracion
de lo que se ha respondido a los puntos
que vinieron en la memoria’, June
1584.
85. AGS Estado K i448/38a, Philip II to
Juan Bautista de Tassis, 4 Jan. 1586.
See the important - and apparently
unknown - holograph letters, reports
and instructions of Tassis on the negotiations
at Joinville in AGS Estado
2846/79 and 86—9; see also Tassis’s
subsequent ‘Commentarii’, 445-57.
One clause of the treaty required the
surrender to Spanish agents of Dom
Antonio, who in 1584 had taken
refuge in Catholic Brittany.
86. See the detailed analysis of Jensen,
Diplomacy and dogmatism, chaps 2 and
4; and also Chevallier, Henry III, 576—
7. On 4 May 1585 Guise signed a
receipt for 300,000 escudos from
Spain: AGS Estado 1573/40.
354
87. See PRO SP 83/23/59-60, ‘The resolution
of ye conference had uppon the
question of whyther his Majesty shuld
presently releve the States of ye Low
Countryes of Holland and Zelland
or no’ (holograph notes by Lord
Burghley, 20 Oct. 1584 OS); ibid.,
fo. 61, Burghley’s notes rehearsing
Spain’s past aggression against Elizabeth;
and the summary in CSPF, XIX,
95—8. See also the account of this
debate in MacCaffrey, Queen Elizabeth,
337—40; and Thorp, ‘William Cecil
and the Antichrist’. In brief, Burghley
realized that aid to Holland would
lead to a direct attack by Spain on
England, but by this time thought it
better to be attacked while one continental
ally remained: see also his fears
quoted on p. 6 above. Arrival of the
news of Joinville in England reported
in Wernham, Before the Armada, 370.
On the interlock of events in 1585, see
Baguenault de Puchesse, ‘La politique
de Philippe IF, 34.
88. CSPF, XIX, 149-51, Elizabeth’s
Instructions to William Davidson, 13
Nov. 1584 OS; and RSG, IV, 515,
meeting of the States-General, 8 Dec.
1584, to hear Elizabeth’s offer.
89. BL Harl. 168/102—5, ^ consultacion
. . . touchinge an aide to be sent in to
Hollande againste the king of Spaine’
(18 Mar. 1585 OS). See the excellent
account of the tortuous negotiations
in Oosterhoff, Leicester and the Netherlands,
38-40. On the disunity of the
Republic at this time see van der
Woude, ‘De crisis in de Opstand’.
90. PRO SP 12/46/159, 171 and 178
(with copies in PRO AO 1/1685/
2oA), document the issues of money
in 1584, starting with £3,500 paid to
Drake in Aug. 1584. See also BL Fans.
43/11, John Hawkins’s ‘project for
distressing Spain’, 20 July 1584 OS,
and 41/5 Burghley’s memorandum
entitled ‘The charge of the voyage to
the Moluccas’, 20 Nov. 1584 OS.
91. By May 1585 the Spanish government
knew of Elizabeth’s plans to send
another expedition to the East Indies:
see CCG, XII, 58, Granvelle to
Notes to pp. 173—3 355
Margaret of Parma, 29 May 1585. For
details on the preparations, see
Adams, ‘Outbreak of the Elizabethan
naval war’, 50—8.
92. On Granvelle’s early demands for
an embargo, and the reasons why it
could not be implemented (the grain
brought by Dutch ships kept the
population of Lisbon from starving),
see BL Addl 28,702/96, Granvelle to
Philip II, 3 Mar. 1582; CCG, X, 43-
5, Foncq to Granvelle, 31 Jan. 1583;
224, Granvelle to Bellefontaine, 23
May 1583; and 331-2, Granvelle to
Idiaquez, 21 Aug. 1583.
93. CCG, XI, 65—6 and 102, Granvelle to
Idiaquez, 5 Aug. 1584 (‘Lo del arresto
de los navios al mes de setiembre
y serrar el comercio es tan necessario
que ninguna cosa mas, si queremos
acabar’), and 15 Aug. 1584. On the
change of plan, see AGRB AID
5459/206 and 222, Granvelle to
Idiaquez, 19 and 24 Aug. 1584; and
CCG, XI, 177-9, same to same, i
Sept. 1584, hoping to see it effected in
October.
94. CCG, XI, 177-9 204-5,
Granvelle to Idiaquez, i and 6 Sept.
1584, and the quotation from pp.
367—8, Granvelle to Charles de
Mansfelt, 27 Oct. 1584. See other letters
on the same subject — Granvelle
was nothing if not persistent - ibid.,
336-8, 340-1, 347-9 and 354-5. all
to Idiaquez, 14, 17, 18 and 21 Oct.
1584; and CCG, XII, 58 and 70,
Granvelle to Margaret of Parma, 29
May and 22 June 1585.
95. BMO, I, 476-7, Philip II order of 25
May 1585. It is worth stressing those
words ‘with the pretence {con colorY,
because several scholars have argued
that the embargo was indeed intended
to provide ships for naval operations
(like the embargoes of vessels ordered
in 1582, 1583 and 1586—88); but
this does not appear to have been the
case. For an alternative view, see
Rodrfguez-Salgado and Adams, England,
Spain and the Gran Armada, 6, 56
and 241.
96. BMO, I, 490-1, order of 3 July 1585;
and AGS GA 80/125, ‘Copia del
apuntamiento que Antonio de Erasso
dio a Don Cristobal de Moura’, 20
July 1585 (some argued that the English
should not be released because of
the Primrose incident, but the king
correctly pointed out that ‘the ships
that are here were not guilty of the
crime’). For the eventual sale of the
Dutch vessels, see KML MSP: CC 7,
‘Cuentas del valor de las ureas de
estrangeros que por mandado de Su
Magestad se arrestaron’.
97. Kernkamp, De handel op den vijand, I,
153-60; Snapper, Oorlogsinvloeden, 32-
8; and Israel, Empires and entrepots,
193-4. BMO, I, 490-1, Philip II to
Antonio de Guevara, 3 July 1585,
mentioned 123 Dutch ships detained
in Lisbon, Setubal and Andalusia
alone (see also BMO, I, 481—90, for
other papers on the ships embargoed).
98. PRO SP 94/2/78-84, Philip II to the
corregidor of Bilbao, 29 May 1585.
original with two distinct English
translations.
99. Granvelle expressed his contempt for
the English in a letter to Margaret of
Parma on ii Sept. 1572: CCG, IV,
420.
100. Bain, The Hamilton Papers, II, 650—1,
Walsingham to Edward Wotton, ii
June 1585 OS. Note that the captured
Spanish magistrate claimed to have
lost, in the scuffle aboard the Primrose,
one of the letters authorizing him to
seize the English ship: PRO SP 12/
179/32-3V, interrogation of Francisco
de Guevara. Walsingham and his
colleagues therefore did not have the
entire picture.
101. PRO SP 12/179/36L8, Examination
of the well-informed Bilbao merchant
Pedro de Villareal, 13 June 1585 OS
(he also confirmed that Spain sent
regular subsidies to the French
Catholic League: someone later underlined
all information in his testimony
concerning France); and PRO SP 12/
180/59A, captured letter from Juan
del Hoyo, merchant, 5 July 1585 NS.
102. Collinson, ‘The Elizabethan exclusion
crisis’, 87-92 (on arrangements for
356 Notes to pp. ij^—8o
the ‘interregnum’); Cressy, ‘Binding
the nation’; and Pollitt, Arming the
nation.
103. PRO SP 12/177/153-4, ‘A plott’,
spring 1585, draft.
104. BL hans. 41/103—68, statements of
goods imported and exported through
English ports to Spain and Portugal.
The government’s interest in measuring
the Iberian trade at precisely this
time is interesting: did it perhaps
wish to assess the possible economic
impact of war with Philip? See also
the helpful introduction to Croft, The
Spanish Company, and idem, ‘English
commerce with Spain’.
105. Durand-Lapie, ‘Un roi detrone’, 640,
Leicester to Dom Antonio, 24 May
1585 OS; PRO SP 12/179/48, Commission
to Bernard Drake, 20 June
1585 OS, copy; Corbett, Papers relating
to the navy, 36-8, ‘Articles set
down ... for the merchants, owners of
ships and others whose goods have
been arrested in Spain, and have
licence from the Lord Admiral to
reprise upon the Spaniards’, 9 July
1585 OS. Adams, ‘Outbreak of the
Elixabethan naval war’, 46, notes that
the issue of letters of reprisal began
three days later.
106. PRO SP 46/17/160, Elizabeth’s warrant,
I July 1585 OS, and fo. 172,
Privy Council warrant, ii July 1585
OS. Piecing together the history of
Drake’s expedition is complicated by
the absence of the Privy Council Register
for 1582-86.
107. See Oosterhoff, Leicester and the Netherlands,
39—45.
108. For details see BMO, I, 518-19 and
539, Pedfo Bermudez to the Court, 7
Oct. 1585, and Licenciado Antolinez
to Philip II, 14 Nov. 1585. Almost all
ambassadors in Madrid obtained and
forwarded to their governments a copy
of Bermudez’s letter. For the English
side, see Keeler, Sir Francis Drake’s
West Indian Voyage.
109. See the discussion of motives, and the
citation of sources, in Rodrlguez-
Salgado and Adams, England, Spain
and the Gran Armada, 59.
no. Breeder Verclaringhe.
III. OOLA KB 4/137, Khevenhiiller to
Rudolf II, 13 Oct. 1585; Longlee,
192, letter to Henry III, 28 Oct.
1585; CSPV, VIII, 123 and ASVe,
Senato: dispacci Spagna 18, unfoL,
Gradinegro to Venice, 25 Oct. 1585.
6 The ‘Enterprise of England’,
138^-88
1. ASF MP 2636/123—4, Instructions
to Dovara, 28 Feb. 1585, and 5022/
357ff, his correspondence with the
grand duke. The reasons for Dovara’s
presence at Court puzzled other ambassadors:
see ASMo CD 14, unfoL,
Varano to Ferrara, 29 June 1585;
ASMa AG 600a, unfoL, Cavriano to
Mantua, 2 Jan. 1586; ASL Offizio
sulk differenze, 268, unfoL, Portico to
Lucca, 29 June, 21 Sept, and 19 Oct.
1585, etc. Its significance at first
eluded even the perceptive Spanish
ambassador in Rome: see Olivares’s
apology to Philip II for failing to
mention Dovara’s mission: RAH Ms
9-5516, unfoL, ‘Relacion de nueve
cartas’, letter of 28 July 1585. For
Dovara’s previous visits to Spain, see
his correspondence with royal ministers
in AGS Estado 1452.
2. BMO, I, 478, royal apostil on a letter
from Olivares to Philip II, 4 June
1585, received 2 July. Similar testy
phrases recur in the king’s reply to
Olivares on 2 Aug.: BMO, I, 496.
Sixtus may have been ‘inspired’ by a
paper from William Allen that urged
the new pope to support the ‘enterprise’
while the English Catholic
community still possessed the
strength and enthusiasm to support it:
see Mattingly, ‘William Allen’.
3. AGS Estado 946/85—8 and 103—4,
Olivares to Philip II 13 July (about
the ‘empresa de Ginebra’); and 28 July
1585; BMO, I, 496 and AGS Estado
946/229 Philip II to Olivares, 2 and
22 Aug. 1585 (from which the quotations
come). See also Altadonna,
Notes to pp. 180—2 357
‘Cartas de Felipe II a Carlos Manuel’,
157, Philip II to Savoy, 23 Aug. 1585,
approving the idea of an assault on
Geneva as suggested by the pope (see
also the king’s letters on the subject
dated 22 Aug. 1585: AGS Estado
1260/211, to Count Sfondrato, his
ambassador to Savoy, and 1261/90, to
the duke of Terranova, governor of
Milan).
4. News of Drake’s landing was sent to
the Court, then at Monzon in Aragon,
on the day it occurred, 7 Oct. 1585
{BMO, I, 519), and Don Juan de
Zuniga and other ministers began to
discuss ‘the excesses committed by the
English ships’ four days later (ibid.,
521). For Santa Cruz’s new command,
see AGS CS 2a/28o/8-i5, Instruction
and patents dated 23 June 1584.
5. BMO, I, 529—31, ‘Memorial’ sent by
Santa Cruz to Philip II, 26 Oct. 1585.
6. IVdeDJ 23/385, ‘Parecer del Cardenal
de Sevilla sobre lo del cosario’ (15
Nov. 1585), forwarded to Philip II
by Hernando de Vega, president of
the council of the Indies, on 30 Nov.
This and Santa Cruz’s Memorial are
discussed in the excellent article
of Gonzalez Palencia, ‘Drake y los
origenes del poderio naval ingles’, in
Reivindicaa'on, 281—320.
7. BMO, I, 536-7, ‘Lo que se responde a
Su Santidad’. In fact this document,
although forwarded to Olivares on 6
Nov. 1585, clearly relates to the letter
sent with Dovara to the grand duke
of Tuscany on 24 Oct. (ibid., 528; see
also note 20 below). Equally clearly,
it refers to the Enterprise of England,
and not to some ‘enterprise of Algiers’,
as the editors of BMO assert (p. 536).
It is true that the document does
not include the word ‘Inglaterra’ (nor,
for that matter, ‘Argel’), only ‘la
empresa’; but it evidently meant
England because that was the only
‘empresa’ for which the grand duke
had authorized Dovara to secure
Philip IPs support. (See ASF MP
2636/123—4, Instructions to Dovara,
28 Feb. 1585, and also AGS Estado
1452/20, Philip II to Florence, 27
July 1585.) The assertion of
Rodriguez-Salgado, ‘The Anglo-Spanish
war’, 7-8 and 34-5, that at this
stage Philip only agreed to ‘some enterprise’
(perhaps Algiers, perhaps
England) therefore seems incorrect.
8. Villari and Parker, La poUtica de Felipe
II, 110-15, Zuniga to Philip II, undated
but late 1585. Zuniga handled
all the papers concerning Drake’s raid
on Galicia: see BMO, I, 521.
9. News of the build-up of English forces
in Holland following the treaty of
Nonsuch came in two letters from
Parma to Philip II dated 30 Sept.
1585 (AGS Estado 589/81 and AGS
SP 2534/212). Parma also knew, from
intercepted letters between the Dutch
and the English Court, that these
troops formed part of a new commitment
by Elizabeth; but he did not yet
know that a formal treaty had been
signed. News of Drake’s destructive
progress seems to have arrived at regular
intervals, maintaining the king’s
irritation at a high level: see BMO, I,
533-4. 539-40. 547-8 and 551-2.
10. HMC Bath, V, 71—2, Thomas Bayly to
the earl of Shrewsbury, 27 July 1586
OS (also claiming that Drake had
intended to attack Iberian vessels
fishing off Newfoundland again, but
the winds had been against him);
PRO SP 81/4/201, Pallavicino to
Walsingham, ii Sept. 1586 OS,
Frankfurt, in Italian; and CCG,
XII, 133-5, Granvelle to Charles de
Mansfelt, 29 Nov. 1585.
11. BMO, I, 535, Philip II to Olivares, 6
Nov. 1585. It should be recalled that
Dovara received his commission during
the pontificate of Gregory XIII;
the fear that his successor might be
of a different mind seems perfectly
reasonable. In fact Olivares confirmed
Sixtus’s resolve on 15 Nov.: see BMO,
I. 553. Philip II to Olivares, 2 Jan.
1586.
12. BMO, I, 550, Philip II to Parma, 29
Dec. 1585; ibid., I, 553-4, Philip II
to Olivares, 2 Jan. 1586; BL Cott. Vesp.
CVIII/4i2ff., letters of William Allen
in 1585-86 addressing Mary as ‘my
358 Notes to pp. 182—^
sovereign’. Some surprise has been
expressed at the hiatus between the
king’s decision on 24 Oct. 1585 and
his letter of commitment on 2 Jan.
1586, leading to the suggestion
that he changed his mind in the
interim (Rodrfguez-Salgado, ‘The
Anglo-Spanish war’, 7-8). However,
two obvious considerations explain
the delay: the need to assess the strategic
implications for the king’s other
policies (as pointed out in Zuniga’s
memorandum); and the need to make
sure of the new pope’s enthusiastic
support - something that could only
be established after Dovara, who carried
the king’s response of 24 Oct.,
reached Rome. Indeed, the king initially
forbade Olivares to discuss the
‘enterprise’ with the pope until
Dovara arrived: see BMO, I, 535,
Philip to Olivares, 6 Nov. 1585, and
note 20 below.
13. I am grateful to Paul C. Allen for discussing
this point with me. See the
list of successul invasions in Rodger,
Safeguard, 429; for evidence that
Philip II gave such precedents careful
attention, see AHN OM 3512/27—8
and 30.
14. BMO, I, ^66—j, Philip II to Santa
Cruz, 26 Jan. 1586 (but note that
the letter was signed in Valencia, not
in San Lorenzo); 564, Santa Cruz to
Philip II, 13 Feb. 1586 (note that the
correct date is ‘February’ and not
‘January’: see BMO, II, ix-x); and
ibid., II, II—18, ‘Relation de navfos’
and letters from Santa Cruz to Philip
II and Zuniga, 13 Feb. 1586.
15. BMO, I, 566, Idiaquez to Santa Cruz,
26 Feb. 1586 (noting again that the
true date was ‘February’ and not
‘January’: see BMO, II, ix-x).
16. BMO, II, 45—74, prints the ‘Relation’
of 22 Mar. 1586 in full. Ibid., 44,
Santa Cruz to Philip II and to
Idiaquez, 22 Mar. 1586, stated that (i)
the ‘Relacion’ was sent in response to
Idiaquez’s letter of 26 Feb., and (ii)
‘the business is such that it is absolutely
impossible to deal with or discuss
it in writing’ - so probably no
details on the strategy to be followed
were committed to paper. The marquis
showed commendable wisdom,
for copies of his 22 Mar. ‘Relacion’
fell into the hands of several foreign
agents - including those of Venice,
Urbino, France and, most dangerous
of all, England: see p. 209 above.
17. BMO, II, 83-7, Idiaquez and Philip II
to Santa Cruz, 2 Apr. 1586; and 93-4,
Santa Cruz to Philip II, 9 Apr. 1586.
18. Ibid., xix—xxiii, give a good overview
of the changes in the king’s strategy.
19. See the relevant orders in BMO, II,
103-6, 113, 147-8 and 164-5. See
also AGS CMC ia/1735—6 2a/
1208, on the embargo of ships to form
the squadron of Vizcaya between 10
Apr. and 7 May 1586.
20. BMO, II, 26—33, Olivares to Philip II,
24 Feb. 1586. Olivares noted that
since Dovara remained in Florence —
he only left for Rome four days later:
see ASF MP 2636/123, grand duke to
Sixtus V, 28 Feb. 1588 - the ambassador
had decided to speak to the pope
on the basis of the information in
Philip’s letter of 2 Jan. Olivares also
reported that he had not yet mentioned
Parma as a possible commander
(ibid., 26).
21. BMO, II, 108-11, Parma to Philip II,
20 Apr. 1586, and II, 195-6, ‘Lo que
dixo Juan Bautista Piata de palabra’.
22. Piatti’s journey took so long because
he travelled overland to Italy and
thence by sea to Spain. Perhaps the
disturbed state of France and the
extreme sensitivity of his mission
dictated this circuitous route; but,
equally, Parma may have wished to
buy time — his letter argued that the
optimum season for the invasion
would be October ‘and if not this year,
then it will be necessary to delay it
until the same time next year’. A messenger
sent via the Spanish Road in
late April would be unlikely to return
with plans to mount an invasion only
six months later! (Parma did not, of
course, know that the king had
already scheduled the invasion for
1587.)
Notes to pp. 186—C) 359
23. See Casado Soto, Discursos, 110-27,
for Escalante’s ‘discurso’ of June 1586,
composed at El Escorial; and 52, 82,
147 and 157 for evidence of his ‘hotline’
to the king and his minsters.
24. BMO, II, 212, ‘Parecer’ of Don Juan
de Zuniga (June/July 1586). Zuniga
may, of course, have considered other
papers of advice too, for several other
‘experts’ sent their opinions to the
king: see, for example, the copies of
four anonymous discourses written in
1586 ‘Sopra I’impresa d’Inghilterra’
preserved in BAV UL 854/225—57V,
258-85, 286-8V and 289-303. The
last two, written in Spanish and
addressed directly to Philip II, are particularly
interesting: the former, for
example, suggested (perhaps for the
first time) a junction at or near
Dunkirk between the Armada and the
Army of Flanders as a prelude to invasion
(fo. 288); the latter advocated
a landing in force from the Armada
at Dover and an advance down
the Thames to London (fo. 296V).
Bustamente Callejo, ‘Consejos del
capitan laredano’, printed another invasion
plan sent to the king in 1587.
25. Although no copy of the masterplan
has yet come to light, its existence
is clearly indicated in BMO, II, 333,
Philip II to Parma, i Sept. 1586: ‘On
26 July I replied at length and in detail
to the letter brought by Giovanni
Battista Piatti, as I believe you will
have seen before receiving this’; and
ibid., 387, Parma to Philip II, 30 Oct.
1586, replying to ‘your royal letter of
26 July which he [Piatti] brought
me’. A similar letter probably went
out to Santa Cruz because, at precisely
this time, the king apologized for falling
behind with his other work ‘because
I had so much to do for Flanders,
Italy and Portugal the day before yesterday,
yesterday and today’: IVdeDJ
55/IX/iii, Mateo Vazquez to Philip
II and reply, 26 July 1586 (emphasis
added).
26. In the absence of Philip IPs letter of
26 July 1586, the traza (plan) has
been reconstructed from the following:
BMO, II, 387-8, Parma to Philip
II, 30 Oct. 1586; 471—2, royal reply of
17 Dec. 1586; 535-6, Parma to Philip
II, 17 Jan. 1587; and 624, Idiaquez to
Medina Sidonia, 28 Feb. 1587. After
the death of his father in Sept. 1586,
Alexander Farnese became duke of
Parma.
27. It is interesting to note that precisely
the same error was made by Spain and
France in 1779: the success of the invasion
hinged not only upon joining
together fleets from several ports
(Toulon, Cadiz, Brest . . .) but also
upon picking up an army stationed
in two different ports (St Malo and
Le Havre): see Patterson, The other
Armada.
28. In their defence, others besides Philip
and his entourage at this stage
favoured a junction between a fleet
from Spain and troops from Flanders
as the prelude to invading England,
and saw no problem: see, for example,
BAV UL 854/286—8v, ‘Discorso sopra
la guerra d’Inghilterra’ (in Spanish),
and BMO, II, 438—9, Juan del Aguila
to Philip II, 29 Nov. 1586.
29. Reivindicacion, 308, two letters written
by Hernando de Vega, president of the
council of the Indies, to the king in
March 1586; Library of Congress,
Manuscript Division, Sir Francis Drake
Collection #3, Medina Sidonia to Philip
II, 25 Oct. 1586, minute, point 13.
See also the similarly bellicose views of
the merchants of Seville quoted in
Lapeyre, Une famille de marchands,
422-3; and of Jean Richardot in the
Netherlands, CCG, XII, 161, letter to
Granvelle, 30 Mar. 1586.
30. On the concentration of the fleet
in Lisbon, see BMO, II, xxxivff. On
the troops sent to Flanders, see
O’Donnell, La fuerza de desembarco\ on
those sent to Lisbon, see Gracia Rivas,
Los tercios de la Gran Armada.
31. See BMO, II, 414, Philip II to the
viceroys of Naples and Sicily, 12
Nov. 1587.
32. Heredia Herrera, Catdlogo, I, 597,
royal apostil on a consulta of the council
of the Indies dated 3 Sept. 1586;
360 Notes to pp. 189—92
APO, III, 130-1, Philip II to Viceroy
Dom Duarte de Meneses, 23 Feb. and
14 Mar. 1588; Headley, ‘Spain’s Asian
presence’, 638-45.
33. BMO, II, 135-6, royal cedula of 5 May
1586 (see also a copy in the archives
of the English government; PRO SP
94/2/142), and 273-4 282-4,
provisao of 30 July 1586. Interestingly,
at this stage the king did not
prohibit trade from Spain to England,
and (for example) ordered the release
of a ship arrested for carrying goods
from Marseilles to England: KML
MSP: CR 4/313, Philip to Medina
Sidonia, ii Aug. 1587.
34. KML MSP: CR 4/51 and 325, Philip
II to Medina Sidonia, 10 Mar. and 25
Aug. 1587. In fact the Dutch States-
General forbade all trade with Spain
between 4 Apr. 1586 and 26 Jan.
1587: see Kernkamp, De handel op den
vijand, I, 187, 204 and 221-9.
35. BMO, II, 305—7, Mendoza to Philip II,
13 Aug. 1586 (with copious royal
apostils) and 338-9, Philip’s reply, 5
Sept. 1586. Note that the English
precis in CSPSp., Ill, 603—8 and
614-16, contain some significant
misreadings. The conspirators also
received orders to capture Dom
Antonio and kill him: CSPSp, III, 617,
Idiaquez to Mendoza, 6 Sept. 1586.
36. For details see Hanselmann, L’Alliance
Hispano-Suisse, and the more positive
assessment of Bolzern,
Spanten, Mailand und die katholische
Eidgenossenschaft, 20—1, 25, 29 and
141.
37. BMO, II, 420-3, Philip II to Olivares,
18—19 Nov. 1586; ibid., 487-8,
Olivares to Philip II, 22 Dec. 1586;
and AGS Estado, 949/86, declaration
of two Rome bankers, 29 July 1587,
that I million ducats for the Armada
had been deposited by papal agents. It
seems ironic that Philip insisted that
the money should become payable ‘as
soon as the army had landed in England’
rather than when the Armada
had put to sea: BMO, II, 420, Philip
II to Olivares, 18 Nov. 1586. He
evidently believed it more likely that
Parma would get to England somehow
than that Santa Cruz would ever
get his ships to sea - a miscalculation
that cost him i million ducats!
38. BMO, II, 28—9, Olivares to Philip II,
24 Feb. 1586.
39. See AMAE MDFD 237/94-5,
Olivares to Philip II, 27 June 1588,
‘en la materia secreta’. This fascinating
document reviewed in turn the
chances of securing a papal dispensation
for Isabella to marry her cousins
Rudolf, Ernest, Matthias, Maximilan
and Albert. Presumably Philip intended
this to form a prelude to investing
Isabella and her new husband
with the kingdoms of England and
Ireland (as, ten years later, he invested
her and Albert with the Netherlands:
see p. 279 above).
40. AGS Estado 165/176-7, Philip II to
Parma, 5 Apr. 1588, duplicate, about
Allen’s role; Meyer, England and the
Catholic church, 520—3, prints the
29 July 1587 agreement. On the
vexed question of ‘investiture’, see
Rodrfguez-Salgado, Armada 1^88—
1988, 21; for an examination of
Philip’s ‘Lancastrian’ claim, see idem,
‘The Anglo-Spanish war’.
41. See the reports of the English envoys
in Paris, Stafford and Waad, in CSPF,
XXL I, 236, 239, 242, 276; and
Deyon, ‘Sur certaines formes de la
propagande religieuse’, 20.
42. See Jensen, ‘The phantom will of Mary
queen of Scots’; AHN OM 3411/14,
Mary Stuart to Sixtus V, 23 Nov.
1586, Spanish copy annotated by
Philip II; and BMO, II, 402—3,
Mendoza to Philip II, 8 Nov. 1586
(announcing that Elizabeth had sent
copies of both the will and Mary’s
letter disinheriting her son to Henry
III of France). For the ‘affinity’ see
ASV NS 33/279, Philip II to Sixtus V,
20 June 1587, holograph; for payment
of her legacies, see BMO, III, 1777,
Philip II to Mendoza, 25 Jan. 1588,
minute; for the friendship of Mary and
Isabella, see Lynch, Mary Stewart, 7 5.
43. On the ‘enterprise of Scotland’, for
which the king sent 10,000 ducats to
Notes to pp. 192—4
Scots conspirators, see BMO, II, 436-
7 and 492—4, Mendoza to Philip II, 28
Nov. and 24 Dec. 1586, and 555-6,
Philip II to Mendoza, 28 Jan. 1587;
AGS Estado 592/49 and 73, Parma to
Philip II, 22 Mar. and 27 Apr. 1587;
AGS Estado K 1566/128, Mendoza
to Philip, 20 May 1587, and 1565/60,
Robert Bruce to Mendoza, 2 Oct.
1587; Masson, Register of the Privy
Council of Scotland, IV, 316 n.; and
CSPScot, IX, 589, 593.
44. Hunt HA 30881/120, Lord
Huntingdon to Walsingham, 11 Aug.
1588 OS. On the rebellion of Lord
Maxwell, who had actively sought
foreign aid for his designs since 1583,
see Brown, ‘The making of a politique’.
45. HMC Bath, V, 84—5, Elizaberh to
Shrewsbury, 3 Nov. 1587; and Hunt
HA 30881/87V—8, Huntingdon to
Privy Council, 23 June 1588.
46. For repatriating the Turks, see
Dasent, Acts of the Privy Council of
England, XIV, 205, order of 4 Aug.
1586. For the rumours, see OOLA KB
4/269V, Khevenhiiller to Rudolf II, 21
Sept. 1587, Madrid; ASP CF 154,
unfoL, Juan de Cernosa to Parma, 2
and 9 Jan. 1588, Venice; and AGS
Estado 1089/289, Grand Master of the
Order of Malta to Philip II, 16 June
1588, Valletta. On the diplomatic
struggle in Istanbul, see Pears, ‘The
Spanish Armada and the Ottoman
Porte’; Rawlinson, ‘The embassy of
William Harborne’; Skilliter, ‘The
Hispano-Ottoman armistice of 1581’;
and Skilliter, William Harborne.
47. On these developments, see
Dickerman, ‘A neglected aspect of
the Spanish Armada’; Jensen, ‘Franco-
Spanish diplomacy and the Armada’;
and Constant, Les Guise, i64ff.
48. For the subsidies, see AGS Estado K
1573/42, receipt signed by Guise, 30
Dec. 1586, and AGS CMC 2a/23,
unfoL, ‘Cuentas de Gabriel de
Alegrfa’; for the ‘leak’, see Cimber and
Danjou, Archives curieuses, lere serie
XI, 296, report of Nicholas Poulain.
49. Details from the excellent article of
Pollitt, ‘Bureaucracy and the Armada’.
50. Nolan, ‘The muster of 1588’; Gerson,
‘The English recusants and the
Spanish Armada’.
51. On the 1587 operations in eastern
France, see Jensen, Diplomacy and dogmatism,
89—92; on the troops from the
Army of Flanders in Lorraine, see AGS
Estado 592/127, marquis of Havre
to Parma, 10 Sept. 1587, copy; Estado
2852, unfoL, Parma’s Instructions to
Juan Bautista de Tassis, 22—23 Sept.
1587; and AGRB Audience, 1832/3
folder 2, letters of the duke of Lorraine
ro Parma, 1587, on the need for
troops from the Army of Flanders in
Lorraine.
52. No copy of Drake’s Instructions seems
to have survived, but their contents
can be deduced from the queen’s later
attempt - on 9 Apr. 1587 OS - to
countermand them: see Hopper, Sir
Francis Drake’s memorable service, 28—9.
Drake’s original commission to command
the fleet being sent to the seas
‘for the honor and safetie of our
realmes’, dated 15 Mar. OS, is at West
Devon County Record Office,
Plymouth, PCM 1963 37/15. His
attempt to raise Dutch capital appears
in RSG, V, 247 and 388-90 (Resolutions
of 13-14 Nov. and 23 Dec.
1586); for other documents see
Corbett, Papers relating to the navy, 97-
206. The best description and evaluation
of the whole episode is currently
to be found in BMO, III, xxix-xlvi.
53. See full details in Leimon and Parker,
‘Treason and plot’, 1150—i. See also
pp. 221—3 above. In fact Philip II
received other intelligence about
Drake’s raid, but it also arrived too late
to be of use: see BMO, III, xxix-xxx.
54. Drake’s success in paralysing sea communication
between the Mediterranean
and the Atlantic has not always
been appreciated, but see KML MSP:
CR 4/149, Idiaquez to Medina
Sidonia, 20 May 1587, and 167-8,
Philip II to Medina Sidonia, 27 May
1587, about detaining the troopships
sent from Italy at Gibraltar, and not
letting them sail on to San Lucar until
Drake had gone.
361
362 Notes to pp. 194—8
55. BMO, III, 479, 692-4, 721-2, 773,
774-5, 816-17 and 862; and of
course each letter had to be copied to
other participants in the plan (see, for
example, KML MSP: CR 281
and 284, Philip II to Medina Sidonia,
10, 14 and 23 July 1587). Even this
oversimplifies the story: besides the
letters listed above, the king bombarded
his various commanders with
several others over these weeks.
56. BMO, III, 380 and 411, consulta of
the council of War on 19 May 1587,
royal resolution on the 23rd.
57. Maura, 167, Idiaquez to Medina
Sidonia, 28 Feb. 1587.
58. ASV NS 19/256, Novara to
Rusticucci, 6 May 1587, quoting Don
Hernando de Toledo. For similar expressions
see AGS Estado 2855, unfoL,
‘Lo que resolvio el consejo en materia
de Inglaterra’, 20 Jan. 1588; and
Herrera Oria, 262—3, Juan
Manrique to Idiaquez, ii Aug. 1588.
59. For details see Martin and Parker,
Spanish Armada, 136—7. When the
transatlantic convoy escorts sailed to
Lisbon in spring 1588, receiving the
name ‘the squadron of Castile’, the
total strength of the Grand Fleet
reached some 130 vessels.
60. BMO, II, 621-2, Philip II to Parma,
28 Feb. 1587, in reply to Parma’s
letter of 24 Dec. 1586 (apparently
now lost) and 17 Jan. 1587 (BMO, II,
535—6). In fact Philip had recognized
the need for a deep-water port in his
first letter to Parma about the ‘enterprise’,
on 29 Dec. 1585: BMO, I, 550.
61. BMO, III, 479-80 and 770—2, Philip
II to Parma, 5 June 1587, minute;
Parma to Philip II, 20 July 1587.
62. BMO, III, 1006-7 1067-8,
Instructions for Parma on 4 Sept.,
minute, and for Santa Cruz, 14 Sept.
1587, draft (although dated ten days
later, internal evidence indicates that
the two instructions were finalized on
the same day: the king probably introduced
a ten-day difference in order to
allow Parma’s letter to reach Brussels).
Parma brought the oversights in the
masterplan to Philip’s attention on
numerous occasions but never received
an answer: cf. AGS Estado 592/147-9,
Parma to Philip II, Dec. 21, 1587; and
Estado 594/6—7, 79 and 197, same to
same, 31 Jan., 22 June and 21 July
1588.
63. Perhaps one should not be too critical,
since similar defects have characterized
other ventures. For example, in
planning ‘Operation Overlord’ (the
invasion of Normandy) in 1944 Allied
strategists concentrated on only two
objectives: (i) how to get the invasion
forces ashore in sufficient strength to
secure a bridgehead; and (ii) how to
pursue the defeated German forces
after breaking out of the bridgehead.
No consideration seems to have been
given to how precisely the ‘breakout’
would occur, and this oversight led
to seven gruelling weeks of indecisive
fighting. (I owe this point to Russell
Hart.) Philip IPs ‘oversight’ was of
much the same order.
64. BMO, III, 1322—3, Philip II to Parma
30 Sept. 1587.
65. BMO, III, 1363, and 1458-59, Philip
II to Parma, 25 Oct., 4 Nov. and
27 Nov. 1587; and 1225 and 1274,
Philip II to Santa Cruz, 10 and
21 Oct. 1587. ASVe Senato: dispacci
Spagna 20/374-89, Lippomano to
Venice, 14 Nov. 1587, enclosing a
copy of Santa Cruz’s letter of the 4th
(see a partial precis in CSPV, VIII,
320-3, ‘undated’).
66. BMO, III, 1398-1401, Parma to the
king, 14 Nov. 1587. Parma received a
number of reports from his friends and
agents in Spain concerning the state
of the Armada — see, for example, ASP
CF 129, unfoL, letters from Contador
Alonso Carnero to Parma — so he must
have known that it was far from ready
by then. For evidence that Parma
could not have ‘put to sea’ in November
1587 either, see p. 238 above.
67. BMO, III, 1391-2, 1536, 1579,
1616—17 and 1662—3 (Philip II to
Santa Cruz, 9 Nov., 10, 21 and 29
Dec. 1587 and 4 Jan. 1588), and 1538
(Philip II to Parma, ii Dec. 1587). In
December Parma also reported for the
first time the presence of a Dutch
blockade squadron off the Flemish
coast, preventing any sortie: p. 241
above.
68. For the Instructions to Parma and
Medina Sidonia on i Apr., see FD, II,
5—18; for Escalante’s objections,
see Casado Soto, Discursos, 157—64.
Escalante had witnessed the power of
the English fleet when they sacked
Cadiz in 1587, which no doubt sharpened
his appreciation of the dangers
(see ibid., 191).
69. See AGS Estado 594/192, ‘Relation’ of
the Army of Flanders, 29 Apr. 1588
(monthly cost = 454,315 crowns);
and Actas de las Cortes, X (Madrid,
1886), 118 (Philip II claimed on 9
June 1588 that the Armada absorbed
900,000 ducats per month).
70. IVdeDJ 55/XI/62—3, Mateo Vazquez
to Philip II and reply, 31 Mar. 1588;
AGS CJH 249, carpetas 16-17 contain
the ‘Relaciones de sabado’ for
1588; CJH 249 carpeta 21, unfoL,
Don Martin de Idiaquez to Rodrigo
Vazquez, 16 Apr. 1588; BZ 141/160,
Philip II to the count of Barajas, 18
June 1588, copy.
71. BMO, III, 1069-70, Philip II to
Parma, 14 Sept. 1587, minute. See the
papal nuncio’s perceptive analysis of
Spain’s strategic dilemma should the
enterprise not take place in 1587:
ASV NS 19/283—4, Novara to
Rusticucci, 10 Aug. 1587.
72. Jouanna, Le Devoir de revolte, 190-1.
73. Longlee, 380, letter to Henry III, 5
June 1588; BL Addl 35,84i/88-9v,
Sir Edward Stafford to Walsingham,
7 July 1588 OS. The forces of
the Catholic League tried to take
Boulogne again in spring 1588, but
once more they failed: see Constant,
Les Guise, 164—5 BL Addl
35,841/69, Stafford to Walsingham,
18 June 1588 OS. For the other events
in France at this time see Jensen,
Diplomacy and dogmatism, chap. 6;
Forneron, Les dues de Guise, chaps 25—
26; Jouanna, Le Devoir de rhjolte, 192—
3; and Chevallier, Henri HI, 625—45.
74. AMAE Correspondance politique:
Notes to pp.
Hollande 4/177-9V, ‘Maladies de
I’estat de Hollande’ (Aug. 1587).
75. AGS Estado 2218/52, Philip II to
Parma, 18 July 1586, minute; CSPF,
XXI.2, 320—1, Wilkes to Elizabeth,
19 Jan. 1587 OS; RSG, V, 541-4
(Lord Buckhurst’s explanation to the
States-General, 14 Apr.) and 580-4
(on the Danish peace plan, 26 May
1587); CSPF, XXI.3, 83, letter of
Buckhurst to the towns of the United
Provinces, May 1587; Brugmans,
Correspondentie, II, 236—41, Buckhurst
to Elizabeth, 10 May 1587; and AGS
Estado 592/105—6, Parma to Frederick
of Denmark, 14 May 1587.
76. See Hibben, Gouda in revolt, chap. 7;
ARA Raad van State 6/19V—20, debate
of 16 June 1587; RSG, V, 559-72,
and VI, 56—81, Resolutions of the
States-General about the peace talks,
Dec. 1587-Jan. 1588; and Groen van
Prinsterer, Archives, 2nd series I,
83—4, William Louis to Maurice of
Nassau, 20 June 1588 OS.
77. For Parma’s relief over the death of the
Danish king, see AGS Estado 594/62,
Parma to Philip II, 13 May 1588; for
his orders to keep negotiating with
Elizabeth in spite of the deception
involved, see AGS Estado 165/178,
Philip II to Parma, 5 Apr. 1588. Croft
had pocketed a Spanish pension since
at least 1570: see CSPSp, II, 227,
Guerau de Spes to Zayas, 9 Jan. 1570,
and 674, Mendoza to Zayas, 14 May
1579-
78. For a convenient summary of the
Bourbourg talks, see CSPF, XXII,
71—4; and MacCaffrey, Queen Elizabeth,
392—9. For further detail see
van der Essen, Alexandre Farnese, IV,
209ff.; and (using just the Spanish
sources) Fernandez Segado, ‘Alejandro
Farnesio’. The conference lacks a
definitive study, although sources
abound: see the list in Martin and
Parker, Spanish Armada, 284.
79. OOLA KB 4/311—12, Khevenhiiller
to Rudolf II, 13 July 1588. Even as
he wrote, Daniel Rogers went to
Denmark in order to craft an alliance
of northern princes against Spain: he
198—201 363
364 Notes to pp. 201—g
failed (Slavin, ‘Daniel Rogers in
Copenhagen, 1588’).
80. Ribadeneira’s Exhortacion quoted,
with many other fascinating illustrations
of the Jesuit’s attempt to
‘sacralize’ the enterprise, by Gomez-
Centurion, La Invencible, 67—70. See
also p. 96 above.
81. Whitehead, Brags and boasts, 58—78,
on the published items; on the processions
and on the royal family at prayer,
see BAV UL 1115/199-206, ‘Avisos’
of 28 May and 25 June 1588; ASMo
Ambasciatori Spagna 15 unfol.. Bishop
Ripa to Ferrara, 25 June 1588; BAV
UL 1115/205—6, ‘Aviso’ from
Madrid, 25 June 1588); ASV LP 46/
121, ‘Breve instruccion para todos los
que huvieren de ganar el Santissimo
lubileo’.
82. AGS Estado 595/32, Idiaquez to
Philip II and reply, Aug. 1588. On
the king’s anxiety to ‘do his part’ to
perfection at this time, see p. 105
above; see also similar ‘Providential’
attitudes during the 1779 ‘descent
upon England’ recorded by Patterson,
The other Armada, 14, 168-9, 214 and
222.
7 The Worst-kept Secret in
Europe?
1. PRO SP 77/4/231-3, Dale to Elizabeth,
12 July 1588 OS: for further
quotations from this letter, see p. 212
above.
2. Raleigh, History of the World, part I,
book V, 305—6.
3. Von Clausewitz, On war, 119 and
86.
4. Machiavelli, The Prince, passim and
above all chap. 25; Koninklijk
Huisarchief, The Hague, Inv.
22.IX.E, unfol., William Louis to
Maurice of Nassau, 4 Aug. 1614 NS:
‘L’issue de la guerre depend de la fortune,
comme le jeu au de’. I thank
Alison Anderson for bringing this
interesting quotation to my attention.
5. Murray, Knox and Bernstein, The
making of strategy, 2—3.
6. Molyneux, Conjunct expeditions, part II,
21. I thank Adam Siegel for bringing
this volume to my attention. The title
of this chapter is inspired by the excellent
article of de Lamar Jensen, ‘The
Spanish Armada: the worst-kept
secret in Europe’. I wish to thank
Alison Anderson for invaluable
research assistance; and also
Christopher Andrew, David Coleman,
Nicholas Davidson, Rudolf de Smet,
Miguel Angel Echevarria Bacigalupe,
Friedrich Edelmayer, Robert
Evans, Michael Handel, Georg
Heilingsetzner, Richard Lundell, Jane
Ohlmeyer, Robert Oresko, Ronald
Pollitt and Christiane Thomas for
providing references and illuminating
sundry problems for me.
7. PRO SP 94/2/124, ‘Copia en suma de
una relacion que el marques de Santa
Cruz y el contador Bernabe de
Pedrossa an ymbiado a su Mages tad,
la qual relacion se a despachado oy
savado a 22 de margo 1586’. A second
copy is at fo. 126, and an English
translation at fo. 128. The original,
from Simancas, may be found in BMO,
II, 45-74, ‘El Armada y exercito que
parecio que se havia de juntar para la
conquista de Inglaterra . . . hicieronla
el marques de Santa Cruz y el
Contador Bernabe de Pedrosa’. An
abridged copy may also be found in
BNL Fundo geral 637/80—1.
8. ASV NS 32/220—2, Novara to
Rusticucci, 23 July 1586, sent a copy
first; followed by ASVe Senato: dispacci
Spagna 19, from Lippomano on 6 Aug.
1586 (English precis in CSPV, VIII,
i93~5)> BNP Ponds frangais, 16,110/
130-6, from Longlee on 23 Aug.
1586, and BAV UL 829/IV/621-35V.
Philip II later lamented that this plan
had become known all over Italy: BZ
14^1-11, Mateo Vazquez to Philip and
reply, 3 June 1588. Little did he suspect
that it had also become known in
Paris and London!
9. BMO, II, 108-11, Parma to Philip
II, 20 Apr. 1586. Parma bitterly
Notes to pp. 20^—1^ 365
regretted this breach of security: see
O’Donnell, ‘El secreto’. For another
important leaked document, see Bod.
Tanner Ms 78/50—4, ‘A discourse
written by the marques of Sainctye
Cruxe’, 26 Oct. 1585 (original printed
in BMO, I, 529—31, and discussed on
p. 180 above).
10. ASF MP 4919/340, Alamanni to Florence,
25 Mar. 1588 — four whole
months before the Armada reached
the Channel; ASV NS Novara
to Montalto, 4 June 1588; CSPV,
367—8, Lippomano to Venice, 12 July
1588. Curiously, the ‘original’ seems
not to have survived in the archives
of the Spanish government. However,
the data on which it was based were
published in FD, II, 33 - a list of ships
allocated to the right and left ‘horns’
of the formation - and a more detailed
version may be found among the
Medina Sidonia papers: see KML
MSP: CR 5/142—6, ‘La forma con que
se avia de pelear con los galeones’. A
description of the Armada’s formation,
no doubt based on these documents,
was published by the popular
historian Pigafetti, Discorso. See also
the brilliant modern reconstruction in
Pierson, Commander of the Armada, 134
and 235-43.
11. AGS Estado 2855, unfol., ‘Lo que Su
Magestad es servido que se responda
a los cuatro papeles principales que le
dio el Presidente Richardot’ [Nov.
1589], answer to paper 2 (on England).
Medina Sidonia’s Instructions
only specified where he was to join
forces with Parma (‘el cabo de
Margat’), not where the troops would
land: see FD, II, 6. The English who
captured the galleass San Lorenzo on 8
Aug. thus discovered the former but
not the latter: see Laughton, I, 344-
50, Richard Tomson to Walsingham,
9 Aug. 1588 NS.
12. ASMa AG 600a, unfol., Cavriano to
Mantua, 24 Oct. 1587 (similar sentiments
in ASV NS 19/301, Novara to
Rusticucci, 5 Oct. 1587); ASF MP
4919/89, Alemanni to Florence, 6
Feb. 1588; Longlee, 373-4, letter to
Henry III, 6 May 1588. For other
expressions of frustration at the
‘secrecy’ of Philip and his ministers at
this time, see Longlee, 294, letter to
Henry III, 23 Aug. 1586; and ASG
AS 2418/275, Spinola and Doria to
Genoa, 10 Jan. 1587.
13. ASMa AG 601, unfol., Aqui to
Mantua, 19 Feb, 1588; ASMo CD
15, unfol., Ripa to Ferrara, 6 Feb.
1588; HHStA Staatenabteilung
Spanien: Diplomatische Korrespondenz 11
Konvolut 7/345, Khevenhiiller to
Rudolf II, 21 Feb. 1588.
14. Laughton, I, 213-14, Winter to
Walsingham, 30 June 1588 NS;
Brugmans, Correspondentie, III, 74,
Leicester to the Privy Council, 27
Aug. 1587 NS.
15. PRO SP 77/4/231-3, Dale to Elizabeth,
12 July 1588 OS (see a precis
of other parts of this letter in CSPF,
XXII, 32-4); and CSPF, XXII, 51-2,
Elizabeth to the commissioners, 27
July 1588 OS.
16. KML Dr Valentine Dale: letters on talks
with the duke of Parma, #1, Dale to
Leicester, 25 July 1588 OS, and #2,
to (probably) Robert Beale, same date.
Dale also sent similar letters to
Walsingham, Burghley and Hatton.
On Dale’s unusual familiarity with
history, see Jardine and Grafton,
‘“Studied for action’”, 63—5.
17. See Handel, ‘The politics of intelligence’,
26. The division also works
well for the seventeenth century: see
Echevarria Bacigalupe, La diplomacia
secreta, chap, i; and Bely, Espions, part
I.
18. AGS Estado 949/6 and 22, Olivares to
Philip II, 30 Dec. 1586 and 16 Mar.
1587.
19. Odo Colonna’s confession, forwarded
to Elizabeth by the Dutch on 9 Dec.
1587, is at PRO SP 84/19/151-2V.
According to the well-informed van
Reyd, Historie, 258, Colonna ‘werdt
niet ghelooft’ (was not believed); and,
indeed, the English only ordered a further
interrogation some months later:
BL Cott. Vesp. Cviii/95, Walsingham
to Leicester, 5 May 1588. Young Odo
366 Notes to pp. 21^—16
had joined an Italian regiment marching
to Flanders after killing a knight
of Malta and earning the enmity of the
pope. He had kept his identity a secret
in the Army of Flanders because the
Colonna were traditional rivals of the
Farnese, whose clan chief was the duke
of Parma. For another similar intelligence
coup, see PRO SP 101/90/38—
9, ‘Certaine Spanishe occurrences’,
being the interrogation of Ambassador
Khevenhiiller’s secretary, intercepted
and arrested in Nov. 1585 as
he sailed home to Germany after fourteen
years in Spain.
20. For a suggestion that this information
might have contributed to England’s
naval victory in the Armada campaign,
see Martin and Parker, Spanish
Armada, 212—13.
21. PRO SP 12/214/16-19 and 47-65.
An excellent account of the questions
and the answers is provided by
Martin, Spanish Armada prisoners, 65—9
and 80-1.
22. See Martin and Parker, Spanish
Armada, 235.
23. The town of Plymouth, as well as the
queen, sent spy ships out to seek
news of Spanish naval preparations:
see Brayshay, ‘Plymouth’s coastal
defences’, 189. Later, however,
English spies resided in at least some
Spanish ports: the journal of one of the
ships on the 1596 Cadiz expedition
recorded that the day before the attack
on the town ‘two {men] swomme from
the towne to us and informed the
lords generalls of the state of Cales’
(Hammer, ‘New light’, 188).
24. BMO, III, 1750, Licenciado Guevara
to Philip II, 22 Jan. 1588 (although
the significance of the information
seems to have been overlooked: see p.
389 n. 68); CSPSp, IV, 219-22, 263-
6 and 326, depositions by Francisco
de Valverde and Pedro de Santa Cruz,
1588; and AGS Estado K 1448/77,
‘Lo que refiere Manuel Blanco’.
25. See, for example, CSPF, XXI.4, 171—
2, R. Spencer to Lord Burghley, 5
Mar. 1588 OS.
26. PRO SP 77/4/204, Lord Derby to
Walsingham, 13 July 1588; and fos
114, 116, ‘A report of the preparations
at Dunkirk’ (by Richard
Hogesone). See also fos 69 ‘A note of
the ships of war ... at Dunkirk’ (23
June 1588), 169 ‘View of the ships
at Dunkirk’ (8 July 1588), and 303
‘The state of the shipping in Dunkirk’
(Sept. 1588). Another very detailed
and accurate account of Parma’s
preparations was forwarded in Mar.
1588 by Lord Cobham, a member of
the delegation at Bourbourg: BL Harl.
287/86, ‘Advertisements decyphered’
(all dates ‘new style’). See also Chapter
8 above.
27. See, for example, the dossiers of
information passed on by a German
prince in Apr. 1588 in CSPF, XXI.i,
556-64; or a Danish visitor to Spain
in autumn 1587 (ibid., 372-3).
28. Details are revealed in CSPSp., IV,
326, deposition of Pedro de Santa
Cruz. Further information is available
in the excellent article of Moran
Torres, ‘Los esplas de la Invencible’.
29. PRO SP 77/4/185-6, S. de Grimaldi
to Fernando Lopez de Vilanova, Brussels,
30 June 1588. See another piece
of excellent intelligence from a man
captured off the Flemish coast -
including the probable destination of
Parma’s invasion force - in CSPF,
XXI.4, 511, ‘Advertisements on shipboard,
taken the 22 of June, 1588, in
the road of Graveline’.
30. Details from Alava, 125 and 131-40,
and Devos, Les Chiffres de Philippe II.
See also Alava, 349—52, Zayas to
Alava, 27 June 1569, on the need to
change the ‘cifra general’ every five
years; and BMO, III, 1067, Philip II to
Santa Cruz, 14 Sept. 1587, enclosing a
unique cipher to use with Parma.
31. BMB Ms Granvelle 13/185, Philip II
to Granvelle, 3 Aug. 1564, on the
compromised general cipher; and
Bely, Espions, 156, on the dangers
of intercepting a ciphered copy of a
known text. See PRO SP 77/5/215,
245, 288—322, originals and deciphered
versions of sundry letters
exchanged between Archduke Albert
Notes to pp. 216—I j 367
and the Court of Spain about peace
with France in 1597-98, for possible
examples of this.
32. See the intercepted letters of 1576-77
in ARA Staten Generaal 11,915 and
BL Cott. Caligula Cv/98, Juan de
Escobedo to Philip II, 9 Apr. 1577.
For details on Dutch success in decoding
them, see Geurts, De Nederlandse
Opstand, 59-60 and 64-5; AGS Estado
566/56, Balthasar Lopez de la Cueva
to TLa-yas, 7 Nov. 1576; Kervijn de
Lettenhove, Relations politiques, IX,
411—12, Dr Rogers to Walsingham,
20 July 1577; and p. 347 n. 107
above. For details on other Spanish
letters intercepted and deciphered at
this time, see BPU Favre 61/44-5,
Don John of Austria to Juan Andrea
Doria, 16 Sept. 1578 and AGS Estado
579/118 and 124, Ottavio Gonzaga to
Philip II, 13 Apr. and 21 May 1579.
For further discussion of Juan del
Castillo, see note 51 below.
33. BL Addl 28,360/1—2, Juan Bautista
Gesio to Philip II, 18 Feb. 1578;
Laubespine, 825, letter to Catherine
de Medici, 10 Mar. 1561 (‘I tried very
hard to break the code but, although
in my opinion it is not difficult, I
could not’); Haynes, Invisible power, 7—
8 and 18—19. See also the examples
quoted by Strasser, ‘Diplomatic
cryptology’, and the interesting data
from later periods in Way, Codes and
cyphers, and Bely, Espions, 153-7.
34. BL Cott. Galba Diii/95, Olivares to
Philip II, 2 Mar. 1588, ‘duplicate’,
apparently deciphered by an Italian
(‘io’ instead of ‘yo’). An incomplete
English translation may be found at
BL Harl. 295/207, and a better version
- with amplifications and corrections
presumably added as further
codewords were ‘cracked’ — at PRO SP
94/3/3. The original, fully deciphered,
is in AGS Estado 950/35-6 (English
precis in CSPSp, IV, 225-7). In June
Walsingham wrote to share his coup
with the English ambassador in Paris,
Sir Edward Stafford, who immediately
told his Spanish paymaster, who in
turn informed Philip II: CSPSp., IV,
320—1, Mendoza to Philip II, 26 June
1588. Other intercepted and deciphered
Spanish letters may be found at
BL Cott. Galba D iii/60, Juan Andrea
Doria to Philip II, ii Mar. 1588;
HMC Salisbury, III, 82—9, numerous
letters from Parma, Olivares and
Mendoza in spring 1589; PRO SP 94/
3/131, 133 and 190, letters from the
Court of Spain to Parma in 1590; SP
94/6/22, 29, 34—5 and 46, letters to
the Archduke Albert in 1598; and the
examples in note 32 above.
35. See Charriere, Negociations, II, 178 n.i,
M. de Aramon to Henry II, 20 Jan.
1552; Lanz, Korrespondenz, III, 137,
Instruction to M. de Rye, 22 Mar.
1552; and Kupke, Nuntiaturberkhte
aus Deutschland, XII, 246 and 269—70,
Nuncio Camiani to secretary of state,
19 and 30 Mar. 1552. See, by contrast,
Epistolario, I, 206, Alba to Don Francisco
de Toledo, 21 June 1555, which
cut short an interesting discussion of
the strategic options to be followed in
Italy with the words ‘This is a matter
that can be concluded orally, but not
by letter’.
36. BMO, II, 338, Philip II to Mendoza,
5 Sept. 1586. On other occasions the
king recommended sending orders by
word of mouth only, without writing
anything else down: to Parma on 4
Sept. 1587, on dispatching a messenger
to Usshant to meet and liaise
with the Armada; to Mendoza on 4
Jan. 1588 about plans for a rising in
Scotland to coincide with the
Armada’s approach (CSPSp., IV, 137,
188). Sometimes, however, operational
plans simply had to be communicated
in writing: see AA 5/69 Philip
II to Alba, 7 Aug. 1567, partially ciphered
by the king himself (see p. 122
above); and Epistolario, III, 136—8,
Alba to Philip II, 18 July 1572, commenting
on a detailed plan for an attack
on Algiers which the king had
sent for evaluation.
37. The location of the ‘appointed place’
remains somewhat mysterious even
today. In his letter of 20 Apr. 1586,
Parma had suggested ‘the coast
368 Notes to pp. 21-/—18
between Dover and Margate, which is
at the mouth of the Thames’ (BMO, II,
110), but he never seems to have been
more specific on paper. Apparently
only two participants wrote it down
for posterity: Juan Bautista de Tassis,
inspector-general of the Army of
Flanders, stated unequivocally in his
manuscript history that the invasion
forces were intended to sail into the
anchorage of the Downs and storm
ashore at Margate (Tassis, Commentarii,
491); and Paolo Rinaldi,
Parma’s chamberlain, made a similar
assertion in his still unpublished
‘Liber relationum’: BRB Ms II.1155/
216—V.
38. Standen described the system in a
letter to Walsingham’s secretary
Manned on 7 May 1587: see CSPF,
XXL I, 283—4. According to the
envious nuncio in Spain, Philip II
enjoyed Gianfigliazzi’s company and
spent ‘much time’ with him at the
Escorial and his other country houses.
Small wonder he provided Standen
with such excellent information! (ASV
NS 34/52V-3, Novara to Rusticucci, 6
Dec. 1587.)
39. BL Harl. 286/118, Standen to
Walsingham, 30 July 1587); HMC
Salisbury, III, 327—8, Standen to
Walsingham, 7 June 1588. For further
details, see Lea, ‘Sir Anthony
Standen’; Read, Walsingham, III, 288-
90; Haynes, Invisible power, 87-8;
and Hammer, ‘An Elizabethan spy’.
Standen’s original letters from these
years may be found in BL Harl. 285,
286, 295 and 296 (with copies of most
in BL Addl 35,841). CSPF, XXI.i,
283—4, HMC Salisbury, III, 262—
3 and 327-8 provide some printed
extracts.
40. PRO SP 12/202/55, ^ plotte’; HMC
Bath, V, 86-7, Burghley to Lord
Shrewsbury, 3 Mar. 1588. See also
the cache of detailed letters from
Lazaro Grimaldi in Genoa to Horatio
Pallavicino, his relative, and to
Burghley: PRO SP 81/4/52-6, 145,
150-1 and 160—4.
41. PRO SP 85/1/56, ‘Capitano Jacopo da
Pisa’ to Walsingham, Milan, 31 Jan.
1587, noted nine letters written over
the previous four months. He warned,
however, that the Spanish ambassador
in France was able to intercept all letters
coming through Paris addressed
to English destinations and therefore
proposed to write in future via a friend
in Lyon who would forward his letters
through the English embassy in Paris.
Since Ambassador Stafford was by
then a Spanish spy, this procedure
may explain why Jacopo da Pisa’s letters
- full of high-grade intelligence
from the heart of Spanish Italy — suddenly
disappear from the State Papers
after May 1587: he was betrayed.
42. Bod. Tanner Ms 309/46v-y, Burghley
to Powle, 25 Feb. 1588, copy. CSPF,
XXI.I, 529, Powle to Walsingham,
10 Mar. 1588, stated that he had sent
thirty-one letters since his arrival; several
of them may be found in PRO SP
99/1 and in Bod. Tanner Mss 78 and
309. See also Stern, Sir Stephen Powle,
chaps 4-5.
43. CSPF, XXI.I, 231-2, Richard Gibbes
to Walsingham, Mar. 1587.
44. The states were Savoy, Genoa, Venice,
Parma, Mantua, Ferrara, Urbino,
Lucca, Tuscany and the Papacy.
Almost all have left copious diplomatic
archives for these years. For an
interesting survey of what the nuncios
of the 1590s discussed in their dispatches
see Borromeo, ‘Istruzioni
generali’.
45. ASL Offizio sulk differenze, 268 unfoL,
Portico to Lucca, 23 Aug. 1585, copy
(deciphered original in ASL Anziani,
644). The French envoy reported the
same thing a month later: Longlee,
174, letter to Henry III, 20 Sept.
1585. The imperial ambassador had
the story shortly afterwards and
immediately interpreted Drake’s raid
as a casus belli (see p. 176 above; OOLA
KB 4/137, Khevenhiiller to Rudolf II,
13 Oct. 1585, minute). The French
ambassador reported the following day
that the king had just written to his
ambassador in Rome requesting papal
support for his proposal to bring down
Notes to pp. 218—1^
the Tudor state (Longlee, 184, letter to
Henry III, 14 Oct. 1585).
46. ASMa AG 600a, unfoL, Cavriani to
Mantua, 2 Apr. 1586. Apparently,
Philip IPs letters went out shortly
after 2 Apr. and not ‘about ten days’
before. See also Cavriani’s wellinformed
dispatches of 4 and 9 Apr. in
the same bundle. The imperial ambassador
got the story a little later, but (as
usual) in greater detail: OOLA KB 4/
152, Khevenhiiller to Rudolf II, 26
Apr. 1586. For another extremely
detailed account, see CSPV, VIII, 159,
Gradinegro to Venice, i May 1586.
47. See, for example, ASV NS 34/404—5,
Novara to Montalto, 29 June 1588,
with details on the contents of letters
from Medina Sidonia to the king that
‘ho veduto’, and on a letter from
Parma that ‘m’ha detto un amico mio
che I’ha veduta’; while Longlee, 353,
letter to Henry III, 5 Mar. 1588,
claimed to have ‘seen’ several letters
from Armada officers discussing their
projected departure date.
48. BL Addl 28,528/26-7, Mateo
Vazquez to Philip II and reply, 17
Feb. 1575, following the leak of a
letter about Don John of Austria.
During an earlier scare about poor security,
the king asserted that he either
kept sensitive letters under lock and
key, or else burnt them: BMB
Granvelle Ms 23/9-10, Philip II to
Granvelle, 7 July 1566, holograph;
and IVdeDJ 60/321, Philip II to
Antonio Perez, undated (but written
at the same time). Admittedly, Philip
always worked with his door open,
which might have allowed someone to
glimpse a state paper, but it seems
unlikely; and in any case several
ambassadors (including Fourquevaux
and Dona) commented on the king’s
‘exquisite’ ability to keep secrets: see
pp. 20 and 33 above.
49. CCG, IV, 38—9, Granvelle to
Sagantes, 10 Nov. 1570 (on indiscretion
in general); and AGRB Audience
476/99, Viglius to Tisnacq, 5 Nov.
1564 (about Quiclet’s sale of secrets in
1556). On Philip’s valet Vandenesse
see Juste, Guillaume le Tacitume, 56,
n.; IVdeDJ 60/321, Antonio Perez to
Philip II and reply [undated but July
1566]; HHStA Spanien Varia ib/s/45,
‘Aviso’ of 23 Sept. 1567; and AGS
Estado 542/122, ‘Requisitoria’ against
Vandenesse.
50. Fourquevaux, I, 177, letter to Charles
IX, 13 Feb. 1567. See also ibid., 120,
letter of 3 Sept. 1566, noting that
Fourquevaux had followed the king
to Segovia in order to monitor his
reactions to the Netherlands crisis,
but could find out little because most
other ambassadors and his ‘secret
friends’ had remained in Madrid; and
CSPV, VIII, 193, Lippomano to
Venice, 6 Aug. 1586, reporting the
same lack of leaks when ‘the Court is
absent from Madrid’.
51. Details from Bor, Geschiedenis, book
16, fos 44-v (published in 1621), who
added that Castillo had been betraying
the ciphers for ten years, that his
information enabled Marnix to decipher
intercepted Spanish letters (see p.
216 above), and that Castillo was
executed for his treason in October
1581. ‘I have not been able to ascertain
how these matters were discovered’,
Bor informed his readers. But
how did the Dutch historian ‘ascertain’
the rest of his facts? In 1581
Granvelle reported Castillo’s arrest in
a letter, adding that some undelivered
state papers had been found in his
possession: CCG, VIII, 410-11,
Granvelle to Margaret of Parma, 13
Sept. 1581. Cabrera de Cordoba, writing
at much the same time as Bor,
expressly refuted the charge of treason
which (as he said) circulated ‘not only
in Spain but also in the Netherlands
and Italy’. According to Cabrera,
Castillo had been denounced by a personal
enemy but, after a period in
prison while the matter was investigated,
he was vindicated, freed and
allowed to hold responsible positions
in Naples and the Netherlands
(Historia, II, 685-6). Much of this is
confirmed by a letter of Jan. 1583, in
which Philip II informed the viceroy
369
370 Notes to pp. 219—21
of Naples that Castillo had been
imprisoned ‘for some days’ (actually
over a year!) ‘because he was accused of
espionage and of corresponding with,
and having corresponded with, the
prince of Orange about Netherlands
affairs’. Nevertheless, the king added,
a close investigation of the charges
uncovered ‘no offence concerning the
loyalty of the said Castillo, although
in some conversations - moved by
drink and contentiousness - he was
indiscreet in his speech’. Castillo
therefore received a posting to Naples,
a gift of 200 crowns for the journey
and a monthly stipend of 10 crowns,
while the viceroy received orders to
provide a salaried position in which
Castillo could use his ‘talents’ (BCR
Ms 2174/225, Philip II to viceroy of
Naples, 24 Jan. 1583, copy). All that,
of course, does not necessarily mean
that he was innocent; only that the
charge could not be proved.
52. AGRB MD 5479/182, Granvelle to
Idiaquez and reply, 8 Aug. 1584 (with
an imperfect transcript in CCG, XI,
78-9). The culprit was Zayas.
53. OOLA KB 4/152, Khevenhiiller to
Rudolf II, 26 Apr. 1586, minute (for
Medina Sidonia’s indiscretion); Vargas
Hidalgo, ‘Documentos ineditos’, 414,
42 3 and 424. For examples of an ambassador
purchasing information, see
Edelmayer, ‘Honor y dinero’, 112—13.
54. Fourquevaux, I, 120, 183 and II, 388—
9, letters to Charles IX, 3 Sept. 1566,
23 Feb. 1567 and 12 Nov. i57^i
ASMa AG 623, unfol., Sixtus V to
Philip II, 7 Aug. 1585, copy; CSPV,
186-7, Gradinegro to Venice, 4 Aug.
1586 (actually Gradinegro had heard
some months before, from the nuncio,
about Parma’s involvement: see ibid.,
159-60, letter of i May 1586).
55. See Buongiovanni’s letters in ASV NS
36/404—69. For Parma’s indiscretion,
see p. 212 above; for Mendoza’s, see p.
227; for Allen’s, see BL Harl. 2S6I
124, Cobham to Walsingham, 24
Mar. 1588 (details from an intercepted
letter); for Medina Sidonia’s,
see (for example) AGS CS 2a/286/i66
(patent to Captain John Gordon — sic!
— of the galleon San Felipe, 6 Apr.
1588, stating that the Armada ‘will
put to sea in search of the fleet of the
queen of England’) .
56. On the ambassador’s career see
Khevenhiiller-Metsch and Probst-
Ohstorff, Hans Khevenhuller, and
Edelmayer, ‘Habsburgische Gesandte’.
Thanks in part to his fluency in Spanish,
Khevenhuller had already been
sent to Madrid on special missions in
1560, 1566, 1568-69 and 1571—72.
The ambassador of Ferrara, by contrast,
was reduced to purchasing a
‘vocabulario spagnuolo’ in January
1588, after seven months in Madrid
(the quality of his reports thereafter
improved notably): ASMo CD 16,
unfol., ‘In questo libro si scriverano le
spese strordinarie’.
57. Maria sometimes accompanied the
king to his country houses (for
example they went together to
Aranjuez in spring 1587: BAV UL
1115/142, 147, ‘Awisi’ of 30 May
and 27 June 1587) and at other times
she might spend an afternoon with
him while he worked: see, for example,
IVdeDJ 55/XI/155, Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 8 Nov. 1586; and
Sanchez, ‘Empress Marfa’.
58. HHStA Statenabteilung Spanten,
Diplomatische Korrespondenz 11,
Konvolut 7/398, Khevenhuller to
Rudolf II, 14 Sept. 1588. The size
of the Mantuan embassy is given in
ASMa AG 601, unfol., Aqui to
Mantua, 7 Jan. 1588, noting proudly
that this was somewhat larger than
the other diplomatic establishments
in Madrid.
59. Times from Edelmayer,
‘Habsburgische Gesandte’, 68, and
Stone, An Elizabethan, 121.
60. See Mousset, LJn Resident de France,
23—5. Longlee was only a ‘resident’
because the French court disapproved
of Philip IPs annexation of Portugal.
Walsingham’s ‘Plot for intelligence’
(see p. 217 above) also envisaged using
the information relayed from Spain by
Longlee, but clearly Mr Secretary did
Notes to pp. 221—^ 371
not know the poor value of the
product he wanted to buy.
61. Longlee, 233, letter to Henry III, 6
Mar. 1586. In 1584-85 Longlee had
also failed to find out in advance
Philip IPs plan to marry his daughter
to the duke of Savoy, Henry Ill’s
nephew and neighbour, and was
smartly rebuked: see Mousset, Un
Resident de France, 23.
62. ASV NS 19/80-1 and 124, Novara to
Rusticucci, 4 Jan. and 6 Mar. 1587,
decipherments.
63. Longlee, 342, letter to Henry III of 10
Jan. 1588. And beyond his powers it
remained, for even one month later
Longlee still ‘had only conjectures to
report’ on the matter: see his letter of
6 Feb. 1588 (ibid., 344).
64. See, for example, BMO, III, 19^3)
‘Avisos de Londres’ by Antonio de
Vega (one of Mendoza’s best agents in
England), 15 Feb. 1588, with details
of a letter written by Santa Cruz the
previous October, sent by Longlee to
Paris, and forwarded to the French
ambassador in London, who unwisely
showed it to Vega. Vega persuaded
the ambassador that it was false and
should not be shown to anyone
else . . .
65. For a full discussion see Leimon and
Parker, ‘Treason and plot’.
66. AGS Estado K 1567/53, Mendoza to
Philip II, 5 Apr. 1588, enclosing two
lists (fos 62a and b). It is possible that
by this time at least some of Elizabeth’s
ministers had realized that Stafford
had become a traitor and were
turning the fact to their advantage by
sending him false information that
they wanted to pass on (for example,
relating to the superior power of the
Royal Navy) surrounded by a bodyguard
of truth that was either trivial
or outdated: see Leimon and Parker,
‘Treason and plot’, 1150—i.
67. See, for example, the well-informed
dispatches of the Florentine ambassadors
in Paris: Canestrini and
Desjardins, Negociations diplomatiques
679-817. Other English agents in the
French capital also managed to find
out a great deal: see the anonymous
report dated 20 Oct. 1587 sent from
Paris to Lord Burghley, printed in
EMC Salisbury, III, 288-90, bulging
with accurate news of Spanish military
preparations in Flanders, Burgundy
and Lisbon.
68. All quotations from Leimon and
Parker, ‘Treason and plot’, 1153-4
(all dates ‘new style’); details on Stafford’s
payments from Philip at p.
1156.
69. De Bueil, Le Jouvencal (written in
1466), II, 34-5 (I thank Clifford
Rogers for this reference); and the conflicting
figures available for Elizabeth’s
espionage budget in Haynes,
Invisible power, 48. On the other hand
£ 11,000 was not negligible — it would
have sufficed to build four new battleships
each year: see p. 260 above.
70. See the excellent remarks of Stone,
An Elizabethan, 234—8; Read,
Walsingham, II, 415-33; and Moran
Torres, ‘Los espias’. Even Standen, a
Catholic, had been a servant of Mary
Stuart for twenty years and in the
1580s was certainly a double-agent,
receiving pensions from both Spain
and England: see Hammer, ‘An Elizabethan
spy’, 280—4.
71. Of course the reverse was also true.
The king knew a good deal about some
English Catholics (or their parents)
from his time as king of England (see
BMO, II, 305-7, Mendoza to Philip II,
13 Aug. 1586, with copious royal annotations;
and ibid., 338, Philip II to
Mendoza, 5 Sept. 1586, draft). He was
also able to emend ‘avisos’ received
from England in which the placenames
had been incorrectly deciphered
because he knew what they should be.
Parma, Olivares and several other royal
ministers and advisers also possessed
first-hand recollections from the
1550s of the geography of at least
south-east England, and Mendoza had
resided there (and built up a first-class
espionage network) between 1577
1584.
72. Wohlstetter, Pearl Harbor, 382—4.
73. Ibid., 387-93 and 397. The same
372 Notes to pp. 223—7
‘intractability’ has been observed in
other examples of strategic surprise:
Germany’s attack on the Soviet Union
in 1941, Egypt and Syria’s on Israel in
1973, Iraq’s on Kuwait in 1990. I am
very grateful to Barry Watts for
bringing these parallels to my
attention.
74. For example Sir Anthony Standen,
who was extremely well informed
about every aspect of the Armada
preparations, nevertheless told the
English government in June 1587
that ‘the most and soundest opinion
ys that this voyage ys about the fortification
of La Raccia [Earache] in
Barberia, although they gyve owte for
England’ (BL Harl. 295/183, ‘Pompeo
Pellegrini’ to Walsingham, 5 June
1587). However, at least one Armada
prisoner in Aug. 1588 claimed that he
too had been told the Armada’s destination
would be Earache; only when
they got to sea was the real plan
revealed: PRO SP 12/214/55, Alonso
de la Sarna’s answer to question 2.
75. On the ‘predictability’ of a landing
in Kent, and the ease with which a
fleet of even small ships might effect
it, see Malfatti, Cuatro documentos,
12, ‘Descrittione de porti . . .
d’Inghilterra’, 6 July 1588. See also
the illuminating pages on ‘The conscious
use of paradox in war’ in
Luttwak, Strategy, 7—17.
76. KML Queen Elizabeth’s Instruction to
Admiral Howard, 20 Dec. 1587 OS.
No copy of this remarkable document
seems to exist among the State Papers
in London.
77. See the perceptive remarks on this
point by Rodriguez-Salgado, Armada
1588-1988, 24-30; and van der
Essen, Alexandre Earnese, chaps 4—5.
Sometimes, it is true, Elizabeth’s
advisers came very close to the truth -
see, for example, BL Cott. Vesp. CVIII/
12, Burghley’s holograph minute of
a policy meeting on 25 Feb. 1588 OS,
which predicted a simultaneous invasion
by two Spanish fleets, one to Ireland
and the other to the Channel to
link up with Parma — but Philip’s
subsequent changes of plan seemed to
cast doubt on each guess.
78. Figures taken from the convenient
summary in Wernham, After the
Armada, 14—15.
79. Hunt HA 30,881/85, Walsingham to
Lord Huntingdon, 19 June 1588 OS.
The published calendars of Elizabeth’s
State Papers Foreign, which cover a
whole year and sometimes more per
volume for the earlier 1580s, required
five volumes for the thirty months
June 1586-Dec. 1588.
80. Sir John Norris, in charge of defence
in southern England, strongly advocated
concentrating the main army
inland (see, for example, BL Addl.
69,907A, ‘The advise and answere of
Sir John Norreys’ on the defence of
Dorset, 20-24 Apr. 1588 OS), but Sir
Thomas Scott, in charge of Kent’s
defences, favoured fighting on the
beaches (see PRO SP 12/212/40, Scott
to Burghley, 23 July 1588 OS).
81. Barber, ‘England: monarchs, ministers
and maps’, 88 n. 35; O’Neil, Castles
and cannon, 65-79; ^^d idem, ‘The
fortification of Weybourne Hope’.
Several Spaniards noted with enthusiasm
the lack of ‘modern’ fortifications
in England: see, for example, the
‘Discorsi’ advocating conquest in
BAV UL 854/244V-5, 269 and 857/
259V—61; and BMO, II, 208,
‘Discurso’ of Bernardino de Escalante,
June 1586.
82. Hunt HA 30,881/76, Huntingdon to
Burghley and Walsingham, 15 May
1588 OS and 85V—6, to Walsingham,
20 June 1588 OS; Flower-Smith,
‘ “The able and the willynge” ’, 56. For
sample documents on England’s
mobilization in 1588, see Noble,
Huntingdonshire, and Historical Manuscripts
Commission, Fifteenth report,
appendix, part V, 34-58 (the
Foljambe ‘Book of musters’).
83. Whitehead, Brags and boasts, 73, 77—
90 and 102-3. See also Valentine
Dale’s report on Parma’s indiscretion
on 18 July: p. 212 above. The Dutch
were, if anything, even less prepared:
on 10 Aug. the States-General, meetNotes
to pp. 22-j—^o 373
ing at the Hague, received a report
that the Spanish fleet had been off
Gravelines two days before ‘with the
intention of invading either the
kingdom of England or these provinces’
and decided that it should mobilize
its resources. It seems rather late
to have thought of this: RSG, VI, 206,
resolution of 10 Aug. 1588.
84. Hunt HA 30,88i/83v—4, Elizabeth to
Huntingdon, 16 June 1588 OS; Scott
Thomson, ‘The Twysden lieutenancy
papers’, 70-1, Privy Council to Lord
Cobham, 18 July 1588 OS.
85. PRO SP 77/4/271-3, Elizabeth to her
peace commissioners at Bourbourg,
17 July 1588 OS; HMC Rutland, I,
253, Robert Cecil to Lord Manners,
25 July 1588 OS; Historical Manuscripts
Commission, Fifteenth report,
appendix, part V, 48; and McGurk,
‘Armada preparations in Kent’.
86. Christy, ‘Queen Elizabeth’s visit to
Tilbury’, 45—6. For a more positive
view of England’s defensive preparations
see Nolan, ‘The muster of
1588’.
87. Gould, ‘The crisis of the export trade’;
Laughton, I, 284-5, Burghley to
Walsingham, 19 July 1588 OS,
holograph.
88. See the perceptive remarks on this
point by Handel, ‘Technological surprise
in war’; and idem, ‘Intelligence
and the problem of strategic surprise’.
89. Molyneux, Conjunct expeditions, part II,
24-5 (discussing Santa Cruz’s Tercera
campaign).
90. Canestrini and Desjardins, Negociations
diplomatiques, IV, 814—15, Cavriana to
Florence, 23 Aug. 1588.
8 Was Parma Ready?
I. The idea for this chapter originated in
a conversation many years ago with
Marfa Jose Rodrfguez-Salgado. My
thanks for valuable advice and assistance
go to her, and also to Gustav
Asaert, Roland Baetens, Jaap Bruijn,
Ben Cox, J. I. Gonzalez-Aller Hierro,
Joost Schokkenbroek and Rob
Stradling.
2. Vazquez, Sucesos, II, 352. No date is
given for this episode, nor is it
recorded in any other contemporary
account; however, Vazquez (at the
time a sergeant in the tercio of Sicily
aboard the Armada who was captured
by the Dutch, ransomed and brought
to the Army of Flanders later in the
year) added immediately after this anecdote:
‘I have written faithfully what
I saw and what I could find out’. See
Vazquez’s service record (to 1595) in
AGS CS 2 a/2 7 5 (under ‘A’ for
Alonso).
3. Belda y Perez de Nueros, Felipe II, 64-
6, Bobadilla to Don Juan de Idiaquez,
20 Aug. 1588. (This important document,
formerly in the Cabra archive, is
now at AGS Estado 455/602-3.)
4. Breeder verclaringhe, 9. This revealing
pamphlet, consisting of Pimentel’s
interrogation by his Dutch captors,
was reprinted verbatim in Bor,
Geschiedenis, III part 2, book 25, fos
11-12. Abbreviated translations into
English, Spanish and French were
made (see copies in PRO SP 84/26/5—
12; and, in an even more abridged
English version, in Laughton, II, 75-
6). See also the complaints about
Parma by Armada prisoners interrogated
at Dover and Flushing
(Laughton, I, 342-3, and II, 32); and
by Fray Bernardo de Gongora, aboard
the flagship (Harvard University,
Houghton Library, fMs Span. 54,
letter to Fray Martin de los Angeles,
15 Aug. 1588).
5. AGS Estado K 1568/113, Mendoza to
Philip II, 24 Sept. 1588; Estado 1261!
115, Don Jusepe de Acuna to Philip
II, 6 Sept. 1588; Malfatti, Cuatro
documentos, 43, Giulio Savorgnano to
Filippo Pigafetta, 23 Sept. 1588;
and ASF MP 4919/484V, Alemanni to
Florence, 4 Oct. 1588 (a letter full of
detail on the criticisms of Parma circulating
at the Court of Spain). For yet
more outspoken criticisms, see AGS
Estado 1263/117, Acuna to Philip II,
13 Sept. 1588.
374 Notes to pp. 2^0—2
6. Fea, Alessandro Farnese, 308—10;
Parma to Cardinal Farnese (undated
but presumably 12 Aug. 1588).
7. AGS Estado 950/227, the count of
Olivares to Philip II, 29 Oct. 1588,
and 950/229, to Parma, 15 Oct. 1588,
copy. The background to Cesi’s
mission is given in Estado 594/163,
Parma to Idiaquez, 30 Dec. 1588, and
his career in 594/110, Parma to Philip
II, 7 Aug. 1588 (the count had served
with Parma at Lepanto and then in the
Army of Flanders under Requesens,
Don John and Parma).
8. AGS Estado 594/124, Parma to Philip
II, 8 Aug. 1588; AGS Estado 2219/82,
Idiaquez to Parma, 31 Aug. 1588.
9. ASV NS 34/492, Novara to Montalto,
6 Sept. 1588 (see also fos 51 o and 551,
26 Sept, and 13 Oct. 1588); AGS
Estado 2219/101-2, Idiaquez to
Parma, 9 Nov. 1588, minute, heavily
emended. A copy, probably sent by
Parma to Cardinal Farnese, is at ASP
CF 129, folder 3, unfol.
10. AGS Estado 594/163, Parma to
Idiaquez, 30 Dec. 1588. This was precisely
what Parma had claimed at the
time; see Estado 594/125, Parma to
Philip II, 10 Aug. 1588. Meanwhile,
the government also started investigating
those in Spain who might have
been responsible for the Armada’s
failure — see Estado 165/210 (‘Para
verificar lo cierto de la victualla desta
Armada’) and fos 255-6, Don Juan de
Cardona to Philip II, 20 Nov. 1588.
Eventually the king condemned
Diego Flores de Vald&, Medina
Sidonia’s principal naval adviser, to
prison; AGS GA 228/131, Licenciado
Santillan to Philip II, 23 Dec. 1588.
11. ASP CF 109 folder 3, unfol.,
‘Memoria de los papeles que entrego
oy 5 de junio 1589 al Senor Presidente
Richardot’; AGS Estado 2855, unfol.,
‘Lo que Su Magestad es servido que
se responda a los cuatro papeles
principales que dio el Presidente
Richardot’ (Nov. 1589), second point.
Ironically, at precisely this moment
other servants of the crown began
to question Parma’s commitment to
executing Philip IPs policies in
another area; France (see AGS Estado
597/128, Juan Moreo to Philip II, 18
Nov. 1589, with interesting royal
apostils).
12. In 1593 Philip IPs agents in Brussels
received fourteen bundles of the
duke’s official papers (AGS Estado
604/55, ‘Relacion de los despachos y
papeles que Cosme Masi entrega’), followed
in 1595 by two more boxes
{Estado 1277/46-7, Esteban de Ibarra
to Domingo de Orbea, 14 Apr. 1595,
and Orbea to Philip II, 12 July 1595).
None of these documents now seem to
be in the Brussels archives, however.
The four ‘principal papers’ and most
of the supporting material sent to
Philip II by Parma in 1589 (pp. 273-
4 above) have not been found at
Simancas. The duke’s correspondence
has also suffered significant loss (see p.
399 below).
13- Thus Don Jorge Manrique received a
substantial reward from Parma shortly
after writing a favourable report on
Parma’s conduct; AGRB SEG 11/26
(order to pay 2,000 escudos in cash to
Manrique, 30 Aug. 1588). See also the
exceedingly friendly letters of Don
Jorge to both Parma and his secretary
Cosme Masi, dated 26—27 July 1589,
in ASP CF 129, folder ‘1589’, unfol.
Other well-placed Armada refugees
who might report directly to the king
received similarly generous payments
when they left Flanders; see AGRB
SEG 11 fos 8v (Proveedor Pedrosa), 25
(Secretary Arceo), and 26 (Captain
Heredia).
14. AGS Estado 591/33, Moreo to Don
Juan de Idiaquez, 26 Oct. 1586
(Philip II wrote ‘jOjo!’ [attention!]
beside this passage); Estado 593/11,
Tassis to Idiaquez, 19 Jan. 1587
(almost all of fos 1-45 in this legajo
concern Tassis’s bitter clashes with
Parma and other senior military
administrators); and the criticisms of
the Armada campaign in Tassis’s
Commentarii, 489-93. For details on
Parma’s fall in 1591-92, see van der
Essen, Alexandre Farnese, V, passim', on
Notes to pp. 2^2—4 375
the judicial review, see Lefevre, ‘Le
Tribunal de la Visite’.
After the campaign, the Dutch
learned from its prisoners that the
Armada ‘has no boats suitable for disembarking
[troops] except for those it
awaits from [Parma]’; PRO SP 84/26/
48—9, States of Zealand to Elizabeth,
16 Aug. 1588. On the siege-train, see
Martin and Parker, Spanish Armada,
41-2.
FD, II, 5—13, Philip’s Instructions of
I Apr. 1588, minute; KML MSP'. CR
5/129, Don Juan de Idiaquez to
Medina Sidonia, 28 Mar. 1588.
AGS Estado 455/320-1, Medina to
Parma, 10 June 1588, copy sent to
(and annotated by) Philip II (see also
KML MSP'. CR 5/264—7, minute of
the same letter); Herrera Oria, 202—3,
Philip II to Medina, 21 June 1588,
minute; KML MSP: CR 5/278-9
(original) and 289 (Philip’s further
message of 26 June); FD, II, 221-2,
Medina Sidonia to Philip II, 30 July
1588. Needless to say, Parma also
reacted strongly when he received
Medina’s letter of 10 June, but his
protest did not reach the king until 7
Aug.
FD, II, 221—2, Medina Sidonia to
Philip II, 30 July 1588, written off
the Lizard. This letter accompanied a
longer missive completed earlier that
same day (ibid., 217-21), which was
itself an updated version of one
written and sent on 29 July (Herrera
Oria, 252-5); clearly Medina had begun
to entertain serious doubts about
the viability of the strategy he had
been told to carry out. The interrogation
of Don Pedro de Valdes indicates
that at least some fleet commanders
realized that Parma could not fight his
way out; the duke, Don Pedro told his
captors, had 36,000 men, but only
‘some small ships just to carry them
across’ (PRO SP 12/214/65, answer to
question 19).
AGS Estado 594/115, Medina Sidonia
to Parma, 31 July/i Aug. 1588,
copy. ASP CF 129, folder i, unfol.,
Bobadilla to Parma, i Aug. 1588
(adding tantalizingly that he dared
not explain his reasons in writing, but
his messenger would provide details);
AGS Estado 594/116-17, Medina
Sidonia to Parma, 4 and 5 Aug. 1588,
copies.
20. Herrera Oria, 241, ‘Relacion del viaje’.
This document, although organized
as a day-by-day narrative, was clearly
revised before being sent to Philip II on
12 Aug. 1588. In his first letter to
Parma from before Calais on 6 Aug.,
Medina claimed only that ‘the weather
\el tiempoY had forced him to drop
anchor; AGS Estado 594/118. Much
controversy surrounds the point at
which Medina Sidonia decided to
depart from the king’s instructions
to sail to ‘Cape Margate’ and await
Parma; see most recently Adams, ‘The
battle that never was’. Adams’s conclusion
— that Medina took the decision at
the last moment, as a direct result of the
close proximity of the entire English
fleet and the absence of communication
between the two dukes — is confirmed
by the papers of Juan Martmez de
Recalde who, in notes sent to Medina
Sidonia on 29july and again on i Aug.,
still wrote of ‘las Dunas’ (the Downs)
as the fleet’s destination (AHN OM
3511/41).
21. AGS Estado 594/120, Medina Sidonia
to Parma, 6 Aug. 1588, copy (his
second letter of the day). As pointed
out by Adams, ‘The battle that never
was’, 187, the duke can only have
meant a port in England.
22. AGS Estado 594/113, Parma to Philip
II, 7 Aug. 1588, enclosing copies of
Medina’s letters between 25 July and
6 Aug.; Malfatti, Cuatro documentos,
34—8, Parma to Giuseppe de Cernosa,
10 Aug. 1588; and CSPV, VIII, 382-
3, Parma’s similar letter to a Venetian
correspondent, dated 12 Aug. 1588.
This chronology is confirmed by other
sources; the English delegates at
Bourbourg and the Dutch in Zeeland
only heard about the Channel battles
on 5 Aug. (BL Sloane 262/62; Notulen
van de Staten van Zeeland 1^88, 144);
the news only arrived at Antwerp one
376 Notes to pp. 2^4—^
day later (PRO PRO 31/10/3,
newsletter dated 6 Aug. 1588); and
Don Rodrigo Tello de Guzman, who
had carried Medina Sidonia’s letter of
25 July, by his own confession took
seven days to reach Parma (AGS SP
1795, unfol., consulta of the council of
Italy on applicants for the post of
castellan of Pavia, 27 Sept. 1589; credentials
of Tello).
23. On 14 July Parma sent Moresin back
to find out what had happened to the
Armada and to provide Medina with
information on his own state of readiness.
However, a bizarre combination
of shipwreck, storms and an encounter
with the English fleet delayed the
messenger in a French port until after
the Armada had sailed by: he only
reached Spain on 2 Aug. AGS Estado
594/107, Parma to Philip II, 21 July
1588; Estado 165/271, ‘Lo que refiere
Don Rodrigo de Aviles’.
24. AGRB CC 26,136 Compte de Michel
Fourlaux, fos 88—91, records departures
up to 30 July; PRO SP 101/9/
85, ‘Advertisement’ sent to Burghley
in Sept. 1588, reported subsequent
departures.
2 5. AGS Estado 5 94/122, Medina Sidonia
to Parma, 7 Aug. 1588, copy,
acknowledging the arrival of his letter
dated 3 Aug. (see also Herrera Oria,
241, ‘Relacion del viaje’). Five of the
six letters written by Parma to Medina
during the Armada campaign have
apparently disappeared and only one —
which never reached its destination -
has been preserved: ASP CF 129,
Parma to Medina Sidonia, 15 Aug.
1588. My deductions concerning the
lost letter of 3 Aug. rest upon the
following considerations: (a) Parma
received Medina Sidonia’s letter of 2 5
July on the 2nd, the previous day; (b)
at that time this was the only recent
letter he had received from Medina;
and (c) Don Rodrigo Tello, the bearer
of Medina’s letter of 25 July, also
carried Parma’s reply.
26. BRB Ms II.1155/216-216V, ‘Liber
relationum’ of Paolo Rinaldi. This
manuscript account contains a
number of errors, probably because
the author composed it much later: see
van der Essen, ‘De auteur en de
beteekenis’. However, Rinaldi certainly
witnessed the events he
described at first hand: see his signature
on numerous purchase orders for
Parma’s household throughout 1588
in ASN CF 1804.1, ‘Fiandra:
giustificazzione di spese’. Parma
himself sent copies of all Medina’s letters
to the king, with annotations and
clarifications (for example reminding
Philip yet again that Medina’s suggestion
that the Flanders flotilla should
put to sea before the defeat of the
English fleet was ‘impossible’): AGS
Estado 594/113-21, Parma to Philip
II, 7 Aug. 1588, followed by copies of
Medina’s letters from 25 July to 6
Aug.
27. AGS Estado 594/113, Parma to Philip
II, 7 Aug. 1588, received at Court on
the 25 th, listed the arrival times of
each of Medina’s messengers. A little
later the imperial ambassador reported
complaints at Court that Parma had
not ‘acted earnestly enough in the
matter and in the embarkation of his
troops after the duke of Medina’s
arrival’, but (shrewd as always) added,
‘I believe this happened because he
{Parma] could himself have known
nothing of the Armada’. HHStA
Statenabteilung Spanien, Diplomatische
Korrespondenz ii, Konvolut 7/398V,
Khevenhiiller to Rudolf II, 14 Sept.
1588. According to the Florentine
envoy two weeks later, Medina
Sidonia blamed Don Rodrigo Tello for
taking too long to tell Parma of the
Armada’s approach; but, the diplomat
perceptively speculated, it seemed
more likely that the messenger had
been sent too late (ASF MP 4919/477,
Battaglino to Florence, 2J Sept.
1588).
28. These figures, from O’Donnell, La
fuerza de desembarco, 402, are clearly
more reliable than any others available
in print. A staff officer with Parma at
Bruges confirmed that all units were
indeed ready by late June: ASMa AG
Notes to pp. 2j^—8 377
574, unfol., Hercole Gonzaga to
Mantua, 8 July 1588.
29. The billets of the Spanish units designated
for the invasion are shown in
O Donnell, La fuerza de desembarco, 87.
An eyewitness, Coloma, Las guerras,
16, noted the two ‘rehearsals’.
30. AGS Estado 594/113, Parma to Philip
II, 8 Aug. 1588, and 594/163, Parma
to Idiaquez, 30 Dec. 1588, with full
details. By way of comparison, in
1779 experts predicted that it would
take between five and six days to
embark the 24,000 men and their
equipment assembled in Le Havre and
St Malo for the invasion of England:
see Patterson, The other Armada, 166.
31. Details in Parker, The Army of Flanders,
278; and O’Donnell, La fuerza de
desembarco, chaps 2-3.
3 2. AGRB Audience 189/15 3-7, Parma to
Philip II, 3 Feb. 1588, minute
(ilz sont diminuez d’ung ters pour
le moings de ce qu’ilz estoient
auparavant, oultre ung million de
malades); BMO, III, 1398, same to
same, 14 Nov. 1587. Losses recorded
in Parker, Spain and the Netherlands,
138.
33. For the high food prices see AGRB
Audience 189/105, Parma to Philip II,
26 Apr. 1587 (estant le bled quasi
trois fois plus cher qu’il n’a oncques
este de memoire d’homme’). For a pessimistic
source on the Armada’s state
of readiness, see the letters of
Contador Alonso Carnero, in Madrid,
to Parma: 17 Oct. 1587 (ASP CF 129,’
folder 2), and 5 Mar. and 2 Apr. 1588
(ibid., folder 3).
34. BL Shane 262/8 iv-2, from ‘An
ephemeris or diarie’ of the English
delegation sent to negotiate with
Parma in 1588 (almost certainly
written by Valentine Dale). For some
statistics on the devastation of Flanders
in the 1580s, see Parker, Spain
and the Netherlands, 180—4.
35. ASN CE 2125/1, ‘Registro di contabilita,
1588’ (both the nuns and the
Jesuits lent at 7 per cent interest, just
like the secular creditors). See also
Parma’s anguished correspondence
with three Antwerp bankers on 17, 18
and 23 Aug. 1588, begging for money
to keep his army together: ASN CE
1722/II, unfol., letters to and from
Colimo de Mazini, Nicolo Sinori and
Bernardo Bonvisi.
36. Vazquez, Sucesos, II, 347; Piot,
Chroniques, 6~J2 (from an anonymous
Vlaemsche Kronyk’ composed in
Dunkirk).
37. The author of the ‘Vlaemsche
Kronyk’, who was present, offers the
best account: Piot, Chroniques, 672—3.
See also Malo, Les Corsaires, 191. The
triumphant report of the incident by
David Cabreth to Walsingham,
printed in Rodriguez-Salgado,
Armada iy88—ig88, 121, appears to
be totally false. BL Harl. 287/86, ‘Advertisements’
by Lord Cobham to
Walsingham, and Addl 35,841/156,
‘An ephemeris or diarie’, both record
that the three Dutch bombers escaped
to Ostend, where the English garrison
spirited them away to safety.
38. Brugmans, Correspondentie, III, 284-6,
Leicester to Burghley, 5 Nov. 1587
OS.
39- BE Harl. 287/86, ‘Advertisements’ of
Mar./Apr. 1588; PRO SP 101/9/80
‘1588 occurents’ (undated but probably
June); van Meteren, Historie,
178-9.
40. ASN CP 1722/II, unfol., Don Luis de
Queralt to Parma, 17 July 1588, holograph.
Queralt and his men, many of
them former bandits from Catalonia
pardoned in return for enlistment,
had arrived in the Netherlands the
previous December.
41. Laughton, I, 213, Winter to
Walsingham, 20 June 1588 OS.
Winter based his estimate on his recollections
of the English expedition to
Scotland in 1544> which had involved
260 vessels. Note that Winter used
tons burthen’: tons displacement
would be approximately 50 per cent
higher (see p. 383 n. 9 below).
42. BMO, II, no, Parma to Philip II, 20
Apr. 1586; II, 195, ‘Lo que dixo Juan
Bautista Piata’; and III, 1399, Parma
to Philip II, 14 Nov. 1587. Juan
378 Notes to p. 2^8
Bautista de Tassis, who had served
in the Army of Flanders for fifteen
years, also considered the idea of
using barges at sea ‘wholly stupid’:
Tassis, Commentarii, 492. The
contrast between Parma’s meticulous
planning for the movement of troops
by land and his cursory attention
to their transport by sea was noted
by Riano Lozano, Los medios navales,
105-7.
43. ASN CF 1690, unfol., ‘Relacion de
los baxeles que se hallan oy lunes 2
de noviembre en este puerto de
Dunckerque’ (recording only nine
boats of 150-200 tons’ burthen). Contrast
Parma’s optimistic reports to the
king on his fleet on 18 Sept, and 14
Nov. 1587: BMO, III, 1084 and 1399.
See also Riano Lozano, Los medios
navales, 239.
44. PRO SF 77/4/69, ‘A note of the ships
of war and vitallers and munitions’ at
Dunkirk, 13 June 1588 OS (another
copy at fo. 81). This document also
recorded twelve culverins and twelve
sakers lying upon the quay, ‘besides
two hepe of shot pertayning to them,
in estimation about 2000 and
upwards’, but added that ‘these ordinance
are for land and not for the
ships’. Interestingly, Parma intercepted
this piece of espionage: see the
Dutch summary in AGRB Audience
58ybis, unfol., last item. Falcons,
falconets and fowlers were all antipersonnel
weapons incapable of
inflicting serious damage on other
ships. Compare the ship weights in
ASN CF 1690, unfol., ‘Relacion de
baxeles’. See also ibid., Cristobal de
Aguirre to Cosme Masi, 14 Apr.
1588, recording the arrival of two
‘vlitbotes’ from Hamburg, each of 160
tons, one with 15 guns and the other
with 12. All tonnages here are ‘tons
burthen’ and not ‘tons displacement’.
45. See the fragmented accounts of the
paymaster of the Flanders fleet,
Thorivio Martinez, for 1587-88 in
AGS CMC 2a/8, 12, 16, 885, 1077
and 3a/692 and 713. Many extracts
are quoted (not always accurately) in
Riano Lozano, Los medios navales, 168—
78. See also the more detailed account
of the man responsible for feeding the
crews: AGRB CC 26,136, ‘Compte de
Michel Fourlaux’, fos 54—60. An
ingenious but abortive plan to hijack
thirty Scottish merchantmen and their
six armed escorts as they sailed from
Danzig to Aberdeen in spring 1587 is
recorded in Martin and Parker,
Spanish Armada, 152. AGS CJFl 219
carpeta 15, documents the attempt by
Alonso Gutierrez to send six confiscated
Dutch hulks from Seville to
Dunkirk in 1587: only one got
through.
46. BAV UL 1056/304, ‘Aviso’ from
Antwerp, 18 June 1588; CSPF
XXI.4, 511, ‘Advertisements’ of 22
June 1588 OS; PRO^P 77/4/114 and
116, ‘A report of the preparatiouns at
Dunkirk by one who came from
thence’ (17 June 1588 OS). According
to the last account Dunkirk harbour
by then contained 37 ‘men of war’ and
60 transports with victuals, with a
further 27 ships almost ready and
‘very well appointed’. Yet another
English report, filed eleven days later,
counted 22 warships but added that
some 30 of the other vessels were ‘all
unrigged and broken, not servisable
withoute newe buildinge’ (ibid., fo.
169, ‘A trewe note or viewe of all the
shipps servisable in Dunkirke’, 28
June 1588 OS; second copy in BL Cott.
Vesp. CVIII/75).
47. Notulen van de Staten van Zeeland 1^88,
117-18 and 119-21, letters to Count
Maurice of Nassau and Queen Elizabeth,
13 July 1588.
48. AGS Estado 594/122, Medina Sidonia
to Parma, 7 Aug. 1588, notes the
receipt of Parma’s now lost letter of the
3rd — that is, written before news of
the Armada’s arrival reached Flanders.
49. Herrera Oria, 262-3, Don Juan
Manrique de Lara to Don Juan de
Idiaquez, ‘agosto un dia despues de
San Lorenzo’ [=11 Aug. 1588}. He
did not blame Parma personally,
asserting that things remained unprepared
‘not through the duke of
Notes to pp. 2^8—41 379
Parma’s failure to work and plead for
them, because it would be hard to find
in the world a man who would work
half as hard as he did, but on account
of the sailors and those to whom these
duties had been delegated’. Manrique
could draw on thirty-five years’ experience
of military service in Germany,
the Mediterranean and the Netherlands:
see details in AGRB SEG 11/
126, order of 30 Apr. 1587.
50. Herrera Oria, 241—2, Medina
Sidonia’s ‘Diario’, twice states that
Parma was not ready, and quotes the
estimate of his secretary, Hieronimo
de Arceo, that ‘it seemed impossible
that everything could be done in less
than fifteen days’ (Herrera Oria, 242).
The same statement appeared in
Recalde’s journal (AHN OM 3512/
34); in AGS Estado K 1567/102,
‘Aviso’ from Rouen, ii Aug. 1588;
and in Vazquez, Sucesos, II, 348-9.
According to the Florentine
ambassador in Spain, Don Balthasar
de Zuniga (Medina Sidonia’s special
envoy) reported, when he eventually
returned to Spain, that Parma would
have required ten days more to put his
forces in readiness (ASF MP 4919/
477, Battaglino to Florence, 27 Sept.
1588). Another Florentine ambassador
(ibid., fo. 484, Alemanni to
Florence, 4 Oct. 1588) claimed that
the ‘Relation’ sent by Inspector-
General Don Jorge Manrique severely
criticized Parma, while the chronicle
of Fray Juan de Vitoria reported a
heated exchange between Parma and
Manrique concerning the readiness of
the fleet (Tellechea Idfgoras, Otra cara,
177). However, Manrique’s actual
‘Relation’, printed by Herrera Oria,
255—8, contains no criticism of the
duke; and Vitoria, who was not an
eyewitness, composed his vitriolic
account from reports received in Spain
(see Tellechea’s masterly critique in
Otra cara, 133—47).
51. Vazquez, Sucesos, II, 347-9. As stated
in note 2 above, Vazquez was not at
this stage an eyewitness: he was
aboard the Armada.
52. Co\osx\&,Las guerras, 17—18.
53. Vazquez, Sucesos, II, 348; Carnero,
Historia, 230.
54. AGS CAIC 2a/885, Account of
Thorivio Martinez, pliego 145, 400
florins paid to Artus Estamelart; and
2a/1077, 2,400 florins paid to Hans
Smit for painting almost 200 flags
(note, however, that these payments
concerned the ships at Antwerp: on
the significance of this, see p. 241
above); PR0 5P 101/9/85, ‘Advertisements’
sent to Burghley in Sept.
1588; ASN CF 1804/1/64, payment to
Giovanni Batista Cagnola, i May
1588.
55. Herrera Oria, 265-6, Don Jorge
Manrique to Philip II, 12 Aug. 1588.
However, note the reservations about
Manrique’s testimony raised in notes
13 and 50 above.
56. The ships defending Antwerp during
the siege are described in Asaert, ‘Een
brug te veel’. They included a ship of
500 tons’ burthen (p. 130), probably
the same as the later Sant Alessandro.
Details on the ships built in 1587-88,
from the accounts of Thorivio
Martinez, are given in Riano Lozano,
Los medios navales, 185—8, 293—4 ^ind
313-18. The weight and armament of
the principal Antwerp ships are given
in CSPF, XXI.4, 14-15 and 208,
Hercules Annys and Robert Cecil to
Burghley, 22 Jan. and 29 Mar. 1588
NS. Strangely, Paymaster Martinez
(AGS CMC 3a/692) recorded only seventeen
warships in the Scheldt in
1588; no doubt another source paid
for the rest.
57. On his reconnaissance of the coast, see
AGS Estado 592/149, Parma to Philip
II, 21 Dec. 1587- English spy
acquired details of Parma’s plan the
following month: CSPF XXI.4,
14, ‘Advertisements from Hercules
Annys’. AGS CMC 2a/ii, account of
Juan de Lastur, unfol., payments to
Cristobal Roncoli and the bailiff of the
Land van Waes for canal work: 10,000
crowns in all.
58. Notulen van de Staten van Zeeland 1^88,
14—15 and 16—17, letters to Count
380 Notes to pp. 241—4
Maurice and Pieter Willemsen, 17
and 22 Jan. 1588.
59. AGS CMC 2a/ii, Account of Juan de
Lastur, 7,000 crowns paid to Roncoli
for the opening of waterways between
Bruges and Nieuwpoort. On this
engineering feat see the detailed
accounts in Vazquez, Sucesos, II, 332—3
and 336; Carnero, Historia, 230; and
Coloma, Las guerras, 14. Extracts of
these and other sources are cited in
Parente, Los sucesos de Flandes, 127; and
Malo, Les Corsaires, 191—2. See also
Faulconnier, Description historique, I,
95-6. The opening of the ‘cutt’ is
described in BE Harl. 287/86, ‘Advertisements’
from Lord Cobham (Mar.
1588 OS). This may have been the
new ‘sluice’ illustrated in Plate 31.
60. AGS Estado 594/113, Parma to Philip
II, 7 Aug. 1588. Details on the
Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort fleets in
AGS CMC 2a/885 and 1077, ‘Datta’
of Thorivio Martinez; and in Riano
Lozano, Los medios navales, 149—53.
61. See the calculations in Riano Lozano,
Los medios navales^ 233—4, with ‘tons
burthen’ changed to ‘tons displacement’
according to Jan Glete’s
formula (see p. 383, n. 9 below). It
should be noted that, in the seventeenth
century, Spanish troopships
normally reckoned to load between
one and two men per ton of a ship’s
‘burthen’: see Parker, The Army of
Flanders, 78, n. 2.
62. See the excellent study of Cox, Vanden
tocht, 32, 35, 146-57. (Cox gives all
ship weights in ‘lasts’ of approximately
two tons’ burthen: I have
converted these figures to a rough
‘tons displacement’.) By contrast, in
1688 William III assembled a fleet of
463 vessels, including 53 warships, to
convey his invasion army of 21,000
men to England; while in 1780 the
French reckoned they would need
1,100 transports and 63 warships for
their descent on England with 50,000
men and 7,000 horse (see Israel and
Parker, ‘Of Providence and Protestant
winds’, 337-8, and Patterson, The
other Armada, 227—8).
63. Baetens, ‘An essay on Dunkirk’, 134.
See also the details on the capacity of
‘pleiten’ (20-23 metres long and 5-7
wide, drawing no more than a metre
of water, and capable of carrying 200
men) and ‘heuden’ (‘somewhat
smaller’) given by Parma’s personal
emissary to the king: BMO, II, 195-6:
‘Lo que dixo Juan Bautista Piata de
palabra a 24 de junio 1586’.
64. Admittedly the main Dutch invasion
fleet in 1600 did not enter the open
sea; but some 200 vessels sailed to
Ostend (see Cox, Yanden tocht, 22 and
151-2).
65. BMO, III, 1579-83 and 1617-19,
Parma to Philip II, 21 and 29 Dec.
1587 (received on 24 Jan. 1588);
CSPSp, IV, 261-2, and AGS Estado
594/79> same to same, 5 Apr. and 22
June 1588.
66. On Parma’s ‘deception’, see Le Glay
and Finot, Inventaire sommaire. . .
Nord, V, 324; Bor, Geschiedenis, book
25 fo. 5v; and PRO SF 84/26/54-5,
James Digges to Walsingham, 6 Aug.
1588. In addition, Parma only issued
patents to his deputy and to others
who would take over military commands
in the Netherlands ‘from those
I am taking with me’ at the last
possible moment: see AGRB SEG 11/
2V-3, orders issued to Mansfeld,
Olivera and others, i Aug. 1588
(admittedly he had issued patents for
his civilian deputies much earlier, on
7 May: see AGRB Audience 782/175—
6 and 1792/1).
67. Notulen van de Staten van Zeeland iy88,
117-18, letter to Maurice 13 July
1588, including a report of the
previous day from Cornelis Lonck -
which claimed that his fleet had
already frustrated two attempts by
Parma to break out (were these perhaps
the ‘rehearsals’: p. 235 above?)
See also ibid., 119-21, letter to Queen
Elizabeth, 14 July 1588. Squadron
strengths from Schokkenbroek,
‘ “Wherefore serveth Justinus?” ’, 106;
and Bor, Geschiedenis, book 25, fos 6—7.
68. KSG, VI, 206, Resolution of 10 Aug.
1588. See also PRO SF 84/25/51—2,
Notes to pp. 244—-/ 381
Maurice to the English Privy Council,
20 July 1588, stating that twenty
warships ‘at least’ would henceforth
always be on guard off the Flemish
coast.
69. Laughton, I, 331 and 341, Seymour to
the council, 6 Aug., and Howard to
Walsingham, 8 Aug. 1588 NS.
70. Vazquez, Sucesos, II, 336.
71. See Plate 32 on p. 246 above, from
BNM Ms Res 237, ‘Recueil
et pourtraite d’aulcunes villes
maritimes’, no. 17. This fascinating
volume is discussed by Schilder, ‘A
Dutch manuscript rutter’. A direct
channel inside the sandbanks leading
from Calais to Dunkirk, shown on
later maps, only came into use after
162 i: see Stradling, The Armada of
Flanders, 35-6; and Messiaen, La
Connaissance des bancs de Dunkerque.
72. BMO, I, 412—13, ‘Descripcion
sumaria de los puertos de Dunquerque
y Neoport’ (based on information
from mariners in the two ports).
73. The English sources concerning the
need for a spring tide are admirably
presented in Rose, ‘Was the failure of
the Spanish Armada due to storms?’,
215 and 226. The Dutch, who knew
the Flemish coast better, maintained a
careful watch at all times, but did
increase their vigilance just before the
spring tide: see Notulen van de Staten
van Zeeland iy88, 144 (5 Aug. 1588).
74. AGS Estado 594/122, Medina Sidonia
to Parma, 7 Aug. 1588, with Parma’s
denial appended; and 594/124—5,
Parma to Philip II, 8 and 10 Aug.
1588. See also BMO, I, 412—13,
‘Descripcion sumaria’. According to
the municipal records, between 1585
and 1605 vessels displacing up to 300
tons did indeed enter the port of
Dunkirk: see Caban rous, Histoire
de Dunkerque, 71—2.
75. Carnero, Historia, 230—1.
76. Elias, De vlootbouw in Nederland, 3.
77. Haak, Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, I,
139-40. Joachim Ortel to
Oldenbarnevelt, i July 1588 OS. The
English ambassador in The Hague had
requested the naval assistance promised
under the treaty of Nonsuch
(1585) on I Jan. 1588 (ARA Staten
Generaal 11,108/1). See also RSG, VI,
29 and 71-3, for evidence that these
vessels were the largest warships possessed
by the Dutch.
78. Van Overeem, ‘Justinus van Nassau’;
Bor, Geschiedenis, book 25, fos 6-7;
Brugmans, Correspondentie, II, 439,
Thomas Wilkes’s ‘Discourse’;
Schokkenbroek, “‘Wherefore serveth
Justinus’’’, no.
79. See the detailed figures in Bor,
Geschiedenis, book 25, fo. 8.
80. PRO SF 84/26/135, list of the fleet
with Justinus of Nassau, 27 July 1588
NS. This list no doubt accompanied
Justinus’s letter to Walsingham of the
same date: see Laughton, II, 125-6.
81. ARA le Afdeling: Regeringsarchief
1.196, ‘Twee Staten van lasts van
oorloge wegen de Admiraliteit van
Suijt en Noort Hollandt’. On the
withdrawal of these ships from
blockade duty off Dunkirk see ARA
Raad van State 7, unfoL, resolution of
9 Aug. 1588; Notulen van de Staten van
Zeeland iy88, 145—6, letter to Count
Maurice, 9 Aug. 1588; and RAZ Register
van akten en brieven, portefeuille
1625/260V, letter to Count Maurice,
II Aug. 1588.
82. AGRB CC 26,136 Compte de Michel
Fourlaux, fos 88-91, records departures
up to 30 July; subsequent departures
were reported in PRO SF 101/9/
85, ‘Advertisement’ sent to Burghley
in Sept. 1588 (precis in CSFF, XXII,
171—2); and Piot, Chroniques, 682.
ASV LF 46/240, ‘Relatione d’un
grumete’, narrates the journey of a
seaman who sailed on one of these vessels,
returned to Dunkirk, and sailed
thence back to Corunna and Lisbon,
arriving 5 Oct. 1588. The safe arrival
of two Armada vessels appears in AGS
CMC ^a./2-161 (the zabras Santa Ana
and Magdalena arrived on 17 and 25
Aug. respectively).
83. Laughton, I, 314, Edward Burnham
(in Flushing) to Walsingham, 25 July
1588 OS; and II, 45, Seymour to
Walsingham, 6 Aug. 1588 OS (also
382 Notes topp. 24-]—
reporting that the storm had broken
the main topmast of his vice-admiral,
the Vanguard). See also ibid., I, 254,
Seymour to Walsingham, 12 July
1588 OS, reporting that storms had
repeatedly blown his ships as far south
as Calais and as far west as the coast of
England; and ibid., I, 333, Sir
William Winter to Walsingham, 27
July 1588 OS, also mentioning the
storms that drove the blockade ships
off station. See also RSG, VI, 87-8,
report compiled in Dec. 1588 concerning
the Dutch contribution to the
Armada’s defeat, admitting that the
blockade squadron had been forced
back to its home ports just before the
Spanish fleet arrived.
84. Laughton, I, 233, Seymour to
Walsingham, 26 June 1588 OS; ibid.,
I, 312, Burnham to Walsingham, 25
July 1588 OS.
85. RAZ Register van Akten en Brieven,
portefeuille 1625/256V-7, States of
Zeeland to Count Maurice of Nassau,
9 Aug. 1588, passing on Justinus’s
report.
86. AGS Estado 615/99 and 179, Archduke
Albert to Philip II, 20 Apr. and
27 Aug. 1598. On the significance of
the failure to secure Boulogne, see pp.
193 and 363 n. 73 above.
87. Cabrera, III, 288. Cabrera claimed to
have told the king this in person at the
time.
88. BMO, I, 412—13, ‘Descripcion
sumaria’.
89. See Loades, T/}e Tudor navy, 174, for
1558. Casado Soto, Los barcos, 206—21,
gives the ‘puntal’ (the height of the
deck above the keel) for each ship —
those of the galleons of Castile were
around six metres — so the draught
would have been considerably less.
Perhaps this explains why Recalde and
others advocated ‘going on’ rather
than anchoring off Calais; p. 234
above.
90. This possibility may explain the otherwise
perplexing decision of Admiral
Howard on 8 Aug., after the fireship
attack, to destroy the flag galleass as it
lay beached near Calais before
assaulting the rest of the Armada: it
was too dangerous to leave behind,
especially since Seymour’s squadron
had abandoned the Downs.
91. Only Dutch sources mention Parma’s
attempt to break the blockade: Bor,
Geschiedenis, book 25, fo. i2v; van
Reyd, Historie, 262; and the Resolutions
of the States of Holland and
Zealand and of the Admiralty (see
the quotations in Schokkenbroek,
‘Wherefore serveth Justinus’, 109).
RAZ Register van Akten en Brieven,
portefeuille 1625/257V-8, States of
Zeeland to Maurice of Nassau, 10
Aug. 1588, reported much noise from
Dunkirk, suggesting that a sortie was
being planned, but noted no action.
Strada, De hello belgico, II, 558, based
in part upon Parma’s now lost archive,
also mentioned this detail but carefully
prefaced it: ‘some have written
that . . . ’ The only archival source on
the Spanish side that supports the
story is AGRB CC 26,136/9iv, which
records the issue of rations to the
officers and crews of ten warships for
three days’ service at sea, ii—13 Aug.
1588, for an unspecified purpose. The
silence of all Spanish sources concerning
the attempted breakout - Parma
and Manrique; Vazquez, Coloma and
Camera — and of the ‘Vlaemsche
kroniek’, suggests that it never took
place.
92. Brugmans, Correspondentie, III, 284—6,
Leicester to Burghley, 5 Nov. 1587
OS. For the risks of hazarding the
‘precious veterans’ of the army see
Carnero, Historia, 230.
93. In a striking parallel, the Franco-
Spanish invasion plan of 1779 also
failed largely because it required the
junction of a fleet from one area
(Corunna) with an army mustered in
another (St Malo and Le Havre) before
the invasion could take place: see
Patterson, The other Armada, passim.
94. Laughton, II, 45, Seymour, Winter
and Palmer to the Privy Council, 6
Aug. 1588 OS. Parma discharged his
hired transports on 31 Aug. (see AGS
CMC 2a/io77, account of Thorivio
Notes to pp. 24^—^2
Martinez). Certain news of the Armada’s
return to Spain only reached Flanders
five weeks later: see ASN CF
ibybbis, unfoL, Marolin de Juan to
Parma, 7 Oct. 1588, Dunkirk.
9 The Guns of August
1. I am most grateful for references and
suggestions to Thomas Arnold, Jan
Glete, Holger Herwig, Paul Kennedy,
Peter Pierson, Glyn Redworth, Kevin
Sharpe, I. A. A. Thompson, Nancy
van Deusen and, especially, Nicholas
Rodger. Further detail on the Tudor
navy may be found in Parker, ‘The
Dreadnought revolution’.
2. FD, II, 9—10, Philip II’s Instructions
to Medina Sidonia, i Apr. 1588. The
origins of this advice are interesting: it
also featured verbatim in the Instructions
sent to the duke’s predecessor,
Santa Cruz, on 14 Sept. 1587: see
BMO, III, 1067—8. Ironically, the
king repeated something Medina
already knew; see the duke’s own
Instructions to the fleet leaving for
America, 31 Mar. 1587, in Maura,
175—7- The reports (‘avisos’) mentioned
by the king have not been
found, but they might have included
the description of English naval
superiority and the need to use different
(smaller) ships in order to counter
it, in AGS SP libra 1550/569, Cardinal
Albert to Philip II, 25 Oct. 1586,
as well as a report by a Spanish agent
from London in 1574 about how the
English fired low in order to damage
their opponents’ hulls (CSPSp, II,
480). The detailed confirmation later
provided by Francisco de Guevara
seems to have been ignored: see p. 389
n. 68 below.
3. Gracia Rivas, ‘El motm de la
“Diana” ’.
4. For the munitions, see Laughton,
E 33^> John Gilberte to the Privy
Council, 8 Aug. 1588 NS; ibid., II,
156-7, inventory of the stores taken
on the San Salvador, and AGS Estado K
383
1568/127, ‘Avisos de Inglaterra’, 5
Nov. 1588. The large quantity of
heavy-calibre ammunition found
aboard these two ships - which can
scarcely have been unique (see p. 289,
figure 5, above) — underscores the significance
of the failure of other vessels
to use their ammunition effectively
against the English in battle.
5. For examples, see Martin and Parker,
Spanish Armada, 227—50.
6. Oppenheim, History, 163. Even so, the
accounts compiled by the owners seem
to have been ‘padded’: thus Drake
charged the government £1,000 for
his 20o-ton bark Thomas (Devon
County Record Office, Exeter, Deposit
346/F588, ‘Accompte of sondrye
charges’).
7. Laughton, I, 358-62, Hawkins to
Walsingham, 10 Aug. 1588 NS. See
also the testimony of Howard (ibid.,
II, 59—60) and of the Florentine
ambassador in Paris in Nov. 1587,
that the Armada ‘is the largest that has
ever been in these seas £i.e. outside the
Mediterranean] since the creation of
the world’ (Canestrini and Desjardins,
Negociations diplomatiques, 737).
8. Kenyon, ‘Ordnance and the king’s
fleet in 1548’, 63-5; and Caruana,
English sea ordnance, I 18—21
(summary of the artillery listed in the
inventory of the navy by Anthony
Anthony in 1546).
9. All ship weights in this chapter,
unless otherwise stated, are given in
‘tons displacement’, even though almost
all English records of the period
— and subsequently — give only the
‘tons and tonnage’ for each ship, a
measurement that relates to their
internal volume. Glete, Navies and
nations, II, 527-30, shows how to calculate
displacement by multiplying
the length, beam and draught of each
ship, and then adjusting the total to
establish how much of the hull lay
under water (the ‘block coefficient’).
Since not all ships in the navy possessed
the same design features, the ‘block
coefficient’ differs slightly in each case.
However, Dr Glete has estimated the
384 Notes to pp. 252—3
probable displacement for each vessel,
based on its exact dimensions, and very
generously shared his calculations with
me. I am very grateful to him. I also
thank Nicholas Rodger for pointing
out to me the advantage of using
Glete’s method. The same can be done
with Spanish tomles, also a measurement
of carrying capacity and not displacement:
see the erudite discussion
in Casado Soto, Los barcos, 57-94, and
the weights and measurements for each
ship in the Armada of 1588 given later.
Dr Glete also generously shared with
me his calculations of displacement,
based on Casado Soto’s figures,
although naturally these figures
remain approximate.
10. PRO WO 55/1672, ‘A view and
survey of all her Majesty’s
Ordinnance’, listing all ships except
the Warspite and the Repulse-, the totals
for these two ships have been added
from WO 55/1627, ‘The booke of the
remaynes’. Parker, ‘The Dreadnought
revolution’. Appendix I, gives details
for each capital ship.
11. The Swift sure, also launched in 1573,
only displaced 550 tons according to
a survey of 1590—91, but was ‘new
built’ in 1592, increasing her displacement
to 650 tons. In 1595 she
carried 37 guns with a total weight of
43 tons - 6.61 per cent of her total
displacement. Calculations of displacement
kindly supplied by Jan
Glete; weight of ordnance calculated
from the totals aboard each ship in
Sept. 1595 according to PRO WO 55/
s(s~i'i, ‘A view and survey of all Her
Majestie’s Ordinnance’. Note that the
ordnance weights include only the
gun barrels: the mountings, equipment
and ammunition were
additional.
12. See the most interesting document
on the rotation programme presented
by Adams, ‘New light’; and also
Glasgow, ‘The shape of the ships’.
13. Naval totals from Parker, ‘The Dreadnought
revolution’. Appendix II. These
figures do not include the naval outlay
of the Ordnance Office, which added
at least another £100,000 to the
wartime cost of Elizabeth’s navy.
14. See Parker, Spain and the Netherlands,
36. Jan Glete has informed me that
Sweden and Denmark may sometimes
have devoted 30 per cent of their
defence budgets to their navies during
the 1560s, when they were at war
(though not for two entire decades).
15. See the detailed description of the
armament aboard the flag galleass in
AGS Estado 594/152, ‘Relation de lo
que queda de la galeaza’ - she carried
18 pieces firing between 15- and 50-
pound balls. An Englishman who
examined this ‘mightie huge ship’ on
the sands at Calais claimed she carried
a total of 64 guns: BL Sloane 262/66V.
See also BNP Ponds frangais 5045/155,
‘Discours’ on the Armada with much
detail on the wrecked galleass by
an eyewitness at Calais; the 1589
‘Addicoune’ to John Mountgomerie’s
Treatise concerning the Navie of England
(Magdalene College, Cambridge,
Pepys Mi. 1774); AGS Estado 431/135,
‘Relation de los naos que ay’ (which
gives a total weight of 2,000 toneladas
for the four galleasses).
16. Admittedly, two galleasses had sailed
with the marquis of Santa Cruz in
1583 and taken part in his victory off
Terceira, but those that sailed against
England were different vessels and
only reached Lisbon in August 1587;
the transatlantic guardships did not
arrive there until Feb. 1588. On the
other hand, several of the ships
in the 1583 campaign served again in
1588: compare the list of names in
Fernandez Duro, La conquista, 402-
17-
17. Taylor, Troublesome voyage, 154, and
Rodger, Safeguard, 219. On the advice
of Jan Glete, I have applied a rough
conversion factor of 1.5 to the ‘tons
and tonnage’ of these two private
vessels to suggest their displacement
(see note 9 above). The speed of
England’s mobilization in 1588
was truly remarkable: within three
months Elizabeth concentrated a fleet
larger than the Armada, which had
Notes to pp. 252—7 385
taken Philip three years to assemble.
Moreover, her fleet was entirely English
whereas Philip’s fleet was by no
means all Spanish.
18. On the Grifon, see AGS CS 2^/280
fo. 1939, statement of Juan Gomez
de Medina, 8 Oct. 1588 (copy):
‘maltratada de la mucha artilleria con
que algunos navios de la armada
inglesa la batio, y de la que ella
asimismo jugo contra ellos’. The same
could happen to purpose-built warships:
AGS GA 226/8, Don Jorge
Manrique to Philip II, 19 Aug. 1588,
described the San Mateo, a Portuguese
galleon built in the 1570s which sank
off the Flemish coast, as being ‘abierto
de su mesma artilleria’.
19. Laughton, II, ii. Winter to
Walsingham, ii Aug. 1588 NS.
Earlier in the letter (p. 10),
Winter claimed that the English fleet
did not begin to fire until they were
120 paces away.
20. HMC Salisbury, III, 345, Deposition
of two Dutch sailors from the Armada,
II Aug. 1588; ED, II, 405, Account
of Friar la Torre, aboard the flagship;
Laughton, II, 60, Howard to
Walsingham, 8 Aug. 1588 NS, reporting
claims made by his Spanish
captives. See also the ‘Observations’
subsequently written by Sir Arthur
Gorgas, who had fought in the action,
concerning the ability of the English
to discharge ‘our broadsides of
ordnance double for their single, we
carrying as good and great artillery
as they do and to better proof, and
having far better gunners’: Glasgow,
‘Gorgas’ seafight’, 180—i.
21. ED, II, 392, Account of Captain
Vanegas; AHN OM 3512/34,
‘Relacion hecha por un soldado en la
Almiranta’ (entry for 8 Aug.); and
Laughton, II, 81, ‘Report of
deserters’.
22. ED, II, 241 (Medina Sidonia), and 261
(a Jesuit aboard the flagship).
23. The records of the munitions issued to
the squadron commanded by Sir
Francis Drake at Plymouth (6 royal
and 32 merchant ships) have survived.
They reveal the delivery of some 5,220
rounds and almost 39,000 pounds of
powder between Oct. 1587 and Apr.
1588 for the whole squadron, and
the distribution of these munitions
in May 1588 among individual ships;
however, they unfortunately provide
no indication either of munitions
already aboard or of the quantities
expended in the 1588 campaign. See
West Devon County Record Office,
Plymouth, PCM 1971/4, ‘Powder and
munition delivered at Plymouth’.
24. Usherwood, The Counter-Armada, 77;
Pierson, Commander of the Armada,
201; PRO WO 55/1627, ‘The booke
of the remaynes of Her Majesties
shippes returninge from the seas’,
Dec. 1595-Aug. 1596. According to
their journals, the Mary Rose fired 400
and the Repulse 350 roundshot on 21
June: Hammer, ‘New light’, 192.
It should be recalled that the
Ordnance Office ‘hundredweight’
contained only 100 lb for powder, but
112 lb for guns.
25. PRO WO 55/1627 for the individual
ships; Andrews, The last voyage of
Drake and Hawkins, 72—3 for the
totals (taken from PRO AO 1/1688/
30). Note that the English - at Cadiz
and in the Caribbean - also fired off
substantial quantities of ‘crossbar
shot’, ‘chain shot’, ‘jointed shot’,
stone shot and ‘hail shot’: see the
impressive totals in Andrews, The last
voyage.
26. All English sources lamented the lack
of powder and especially shot on and
after 8 Aug.: see Laughton, I, 359
(Hawkins to Walsingham, 10 Aug.
1588); II, II and 13 (Winter to
Walsingham, 11 Aug.), 38 (Fenner to
Walsingham, 14 Aug.), 54 (Howard
to Walsingham, 17 Aug.), 64 (Whyte
to Walsingham, 18 Aug.) and so on
(all dates new style). Raleigh, ‘Excellent
observations and notes concerning
the royall navy’, written
before 1612 and printed in his Judicious
and select essayes, part III, p. 26,
commented on the need to match the
issue of powder and shot to the
386 Nofes to pp. 2%1—Q
number of guns aboard each ship, ‘as
was seen in the sea-battaile with the
Spaniards in the yeare 88, when it so
neerly concerned the defence and preservation
of the kingdome. So as then
many of those great guns, wanting
powder and shot, stood but as cyphers
and scarecrows.’
27. Manuel’s Instructions of Feb. 1500 in
Greenlee, T^e voyage of Pedro Alvares
Cabral, 183.
28. Oliveira, A arte da guerra do mar, fo.
Ixxii; he also warned, ‘Do not place
heavy artillery on small ships, because
the recoil will pull them apart’ (fo.
xlviii). Oliveira served as a galley pilot
in 1535-43 and 1544-45, fighting
against the Royal Navy (see fos xl—
xli, with an interesting account of the
battles between French galleys and
English warships in 1544—45). He
spent the next two years in England.
29. Chaves, Espejo de navigantes, ‘De la
guerra o batalla que se da en la mar’,
a manuscript of c. 1540 published by
Fernandez Duro, Armada espanola, I,
379-91, and in more detail in idem,
De algunas ohras desconocidas.
30. The crescent-shaped formation of the
Armada is discussed in Martin and
Parker, Spanish Armada, 285. See also
Plate 28 above.
31. Freitas de Meneses, Os Azores, I, 150—
I, II, 59-61 (Cristobal de Erasso and
Rodrigo de Vargas to Antonio de
Erasso, i Aug. 1582) and II, 83 (Don
Lope de Figueroa to Philip II, 3 Oct.
1582).
32. For an example of the former, from
which the quotation comes, see KML,
MSP Capitama General, Cuentas, 9/66
(fos 146-7v). Instruction to Juan de
Escandon, escrivano de raciones aboard
the San Bartholome, 29 June 1587; for
the latter see AGS CMC 2a/772,
papers of La Concepcion Menor, pliego
132, statement of Antonio del
Castillo, ‘persona sehalada . . . para
el apercivimiento de la pelea y
distribuycion de las municiones y
armas’, 24 Aug. 1588. Alas, very few
of these detailed records seem to have
survived.
33. Figure based on the data in Parker,
‘The Dreadnought revolution’, 278—9.
34. AHN OM 3512/34, ‘Relacion hecha
por un soldado en la Almiranta’; FD,
II, 384-5 and 392. Vanegas
also estimated that the rest of the
Armada fired 600 rounds on 31 July
(against 2,000 from the English), and
that the two fleets together fired over
5,000 rounds on 2 Aug., the same
again on 3 Aug., and some 3,000
rounds on the 4th. Unfortunately for
historians, the galleons of Portugal
do not appear to have left the same
meticulous records as the hired ships
and the squadron of Castile, but
Dutch salvors recovered almost one
ton of powder from two wrecked Portuguese
warships: RAZ Rekenkamer
C2983, Account of Pieter
Willemszoon. Likewise the wreck of
the 50-gun San Lorenzo, flagship of the
galleasses, a squadron noted by both
sides as in the forefront of all the fleet
actions in the Channel, yielded no
fewer than 2,650 cannon-balls, implying
that relatively few had been fired:
see AGS CMC 3a/i704, no. 45,
Account of Vicenzo de Bune; and AGS
GA 22 i/i, ‘La felicfssima Armada’, fo.
A9 (claiming that the galleass carried
2,500 rounds when it left Lisbon).
35. HHStA Statenabteilung Spanien:
Diplomatische Korrespondenz 11
Konvolut 7/413v, Count
Khevenhiiller to Rudolf II, 12 Oct.
1588 (quoting Zuniga); Herrera Oria,
245, Medina Sidonia’s ‘Relacion del
viaje’ for 8 Aug. Others aboard the
fleet said the same: see, for example.
Harvard Houghton Library, FMs Span
54, Bernardo de Gongora to Martin de
los Angeles, 15 Aug. 1588.
36. AGS Estado 594/116, Medina Sidonia
to Parma, 6 Aug. 1588; Herrera Oria,
240, Medina’s ‘Relacion’ for the same
day. See also Martin and Parker,
Spanish Armada, 199—200.
37. AGS CMC 2a/905, Papers of San Juan
Bautista de la Esperanza, pliegos 39—
43. This 450-ton ship only joined the
Armada on 13 June 1588, serving
thereafter with the Levant squadron
Notes to pp. 2^^—61 387
but somehow missing all the standard
‘censuses’ of the Armada’s strength.
38. PRO SP 12/220, ‘Survey’ of the
queen’s ships carried out on 25 Sept.
1588 OS (see extracts in Laughton, II,
241-9). Although a number of masts
and other items are reported as
‘decayed’, which may be a euphemism
for battle damage, they are not numerous;
the only specific references to enemy
action concerned some sails of the
Elizabeth Bonaventure ‘shot full of
hooles’ (fo. 50). However, a survey
carried out three days later reported
rather more damage: most notably it
described the mainmast of the Revenge
as ‘decayed and perished with shot’
(Laughton, II, 250-4, at p. 252).
39. Details from the 1588 account of the
treasurer of the navy: PRO E 351/
2225 and (more legibly) AO 1/1686/
23. BL Sloane 2450, ‘Sea causes
extraordinary, A.D. 1588’, also
includes accounts for numerous
repairs carried out in spring 1588, as
well as in September (see fo. 54). My
thanks to Nicholas Rodger for helping
me interpret these figures. For some
idea of the work required before the
queen’s ships set forth, see PRO SP
12/204/34-5, The present state of
Her Majesty’s navy’, 12 Oct. 1587.
40. In 1590, building the Merhonor cost
£3,600, the Garland cost £3,200 and
the Defiance cost £3,000 (PRO £ 351/
2227 and AO 1/1686/25, Account of
Sir John Hawkins); in 1595, newbuilding
the Triumph and building
the Repulse and the Warspite absorbed
£9,372 (PRO E 351/2232 and AO 1/
1688/31, Account of Margaret
Hawkins); and in 1598 alone newbuilding
the Elizabeth Jonas consumed
£4,449 and loi trees, 80 loads of
timber, 31 loads of ‘knees’ (the
strengthener for decks) and 3,000
metres of planking {E 351/2236 and
AO 1/1689/34, Account of Roger
Langford).
41. Paul Kennedy has reminded me that,
in the eighteenth century, damage to
(and loss of) ships due to weather
stood in a proportion of four, five or
even six to one, compared with
damage due to enemy action.
42. AGS Estado K 1448/7 7, ‘Lo que refiere
Manuel Blanco’.
43. Bor, Geschiedenis, III part 2, fos 10—12,
interrogation of Pimentel; Martin and
Parker, Spanish Armada, 37, quoting
Pedro Coco Calderon’s evaluation of
the San Juan Bautista of the squadron
of Castile.
44. Data on guns from AGS GA 347/218,
‘Las naves que fueron en esta ultima
armada’; and Thompson, War and
society, essay VII, 82. Weights computed
from Casado Soto, Los barcos,
382-4, multiplying the weight in
toneles by the ‘block coefficient’ calculated
by Jan Glete (see note 9 above).
Unfortunately, information on the
ships of the squadron of Portugal —
reputedly the finest in the Armada -
has proved hard to find. Nevertheless
the San Martin (the flagship), which in
1588 had carried 48 guns, in January
1591 carried 45, of which the heaviest
were two 29-pounder cannon periers;
only one other gun fired more than 14-
pound balls (AGS GA 347/
206, ‘Relacion particular’). RAZ
Rekenkamer C2983, Account of Pieter
Willemszoon, recorded the calibre of
38 guns recovered from the wrecked
Portuguese galleons San Mateo and San
Felipe (which had originally carried 34
and 40 guns respectively). The heaviest
were nine 14-pounders, plus one 11-,
seven 9-, and five 8-pounders along
with sundry other small pieces.
45. PRO E ^6h^, Inventory of the navy
(see 55—62 for the Mary Rose).
‘Truckles’, ‘extrees’ (axle trees) and
other items to make sea-carriages
feature in, for example. Bod. Mr Rawl.
A 204/1, Ordnance Office accounts
for 1578 (including carriages made
for the Revenge)-, PRO E 351/2607,
Account of William Winter as master
of the ordnance, 1586-89; PRO AO
1/1846/70, Account of Henry
Killigrew as treasurer of the ordnance,
1587-88; PRO E 351/2632, Account
of George Carew as lieutenant of the
ordnance, 1596; and especially WO
388 Notes to pp. 261—4
55/1626, Ordnance Office issues for
1596 - every new ‘shippe carriage’ required
two ‘extrees’ and two pairs of
‘truckes’ (see fos 3, 14, 15, 66-7V,
etc.). Field carriages, with ‘strakes,
spykes, nave hoopes’ and so on, were
clearly constructed in an entirely different
way (see fo. 36).
46. AGS CMC 2a/i2io, Miscellaneous
accounts, order of Valdes dated 22
Apr. 1588; a second copy at CMC la/
1718 fo. 759, noting that the gun (a
9-pound culverin) was exchanged for a
medio sacre of 18 quintals.
47. Martin and Parker, Spanish Armada,
208, 210 and the plate on p. 223.
48. KML MSP Casa de la Contratacion
8/30-41 (fos 171-236), Accounts of
ordnance and munitions supplied to
embargoed ships by the duke of
Medina Sidonia in July 1587. #32 (for
the Santa Catalina) called for wheels
‘3.5 palms high’, or 72 centimetres
(the size of the gun it would carry is
unstated). They were certainly not
‘truckles’.
49. For gunners aboard the queen’s ships
see Laughton, II, 324-5, and Rodger,
Safeguard, 312-13. On the Spanish
side, surviving data for the
Andalusian squadron demonstrate
two things: first, that when the ships
of this squadron (all but one of them
built in Cantabria) were embargoed in
Andalusia, most had relatively few
gunners, and a number of them
were foreign (Ragusan, Flemish,
French, German, Italian, Polish and
Danish); second, that although
Medina Sidonia greatly increased the
complement of mariners before
sending the ships to Lisbon, he did
little to augment the number of
gunners - and many of those now
rated ‘marinero y artillero’ had
formerly been merely ‘marinero’.
50. Raleigh, ‘Excellent observations’,
23-4.
51. FD, II, 373 (Vanegas) and 46
(Medina).
52. Ibid., II, 44~5> Martin, ‘The equipment’,
364-5.
53. See the wealth of quotations on this
point in Rodger, Safeguard, 302-3.
54. AGS Estado 455/602—3, Don Francisco
de Bobadilla to Don Juan de
Idiaquez, 20 Aug. 1588: ‘La fuerza de
nuestra armada heran hasta veynte
bajeles, y estos an peleado muy bien’;
Laughton, II, 13, Winter to
Walsingham, ii Aug. 1588 NS: ‘If
you had seen that which I have seen, of
the simple service that hath been done
by the merchant and coast ships, you
would have said that we had been
little holpen by them, otherwise than
that they did make a show’. Admittedly,
the exact armament of the rest
of the English fleet seems impossible
to ascertain: PRO AO 1/1686/23
copy in better repair than E 351/
2225), Accounts of the treasurer of the
navy for 1588, section ‘Extraordinary:
sea wages’, gives the tonnage and
crews of most of the ships mobilized
to repel the Armada, but no
armament.
5 5. On the galleasses, see p. 253 above; on
the two captured ships, see the inventories
made by the English: Laughton,
II, 154-7 ^r*d 190-1.
56. FD, II, 9, Instructions to Medina
Sidonia, i Apr. 1588. This point also
featured in the draft Instructions prepared
for Santa Cruz in Jan. 1588, but
never sent (AGS Estado 165/29 and
33). These documents, among others,
receive close scrutiny in Adams, ‘The
battle that never was’.
57. BMO, III, 608—9, Philip II to Santa
Cruz, 25 June 1587.
58. Pierson, Commander of the Armada,
266, n. 34, in a brilliant discussion of
the surviving documents, demonstrates
that the king personally
appointed Diego Flores.
59. Lyon, The enterprise of Florida, 73;
and H. and P. Chaunu, Seville et
VAtlantique, 1^04-16^0, III (Paris,
I955)> 98, 122, 128, 136, 140, 168,
194, 214, 276, 292. ®
60. AGS Estado 165/217-18, anonymous
letter from Seville, 21 Feb. 1588.
61. On Flores’s fall see Martin and Parker,
Notes to pp. 264—-]
Spanish Armada, 268 and 290, n. 10;
on Recalde, see Parker, ‘El testamento
politico’, lo-ii.
62. Tellechea Idigoras, Otra cara, 341;
Recalde to Idiaquez, 29 July 1588;
AHN OM 3511/41, Recalde to
Medina, 29 July and i Aug. 1588,
with the ducal replies in the margin.
Two sources independently reported
that at the council meeting Don
Alonso de Leiva argued most strongly
for an immediate assault on Plymouth:
see FD, II, 374, ‘Relacion’ of
Alonso Vanegas, and PRO SP 12/214/
51, testimony of Dr Gongora, in English
(from which the quotation
comes), after his capture on i Aug.
Recent research confirms the view of
Leiva and others (reported by
Vanegas) that the land defences of
Plymouth could scarcely have kept
the Armada out: see Brayshay,
‘Plymouth’s coastal defences’.
63. AHN OM 3512/34, ‘Relacion hecha
por un soldado en la Almiranta’ (but
evidently dictated by Recalde), entries
for 29 and 30 July and 4 and 6 Aug.
1588; OM 3511/41, Recalde to
Medina Sidonia and to Bobadilla,
both on I Aug. 1588.
64. AGS Estado 455/320-1, Medina to
Parma, 10 June 1588, copy sent to
(and annotated by) Philip II (see also
KML MSP: CR 5/264—7, minute of
the same letter). See also pp. 233 and
315 n. 106 above.
65. Herrera Oria, 202-3, Philip II to
Medina, 21 June 1588, minute; KML
MSP: CR 5/278—9 (original) and 289
(Philip’s further message of 26 June);
FD, II, 221—2, Medina Sidonia to
Philip II, 30 July 1588. For more
about Medina’s misconceptions at this
point, see pp. 232-4 above.
66. AHN OM 3512/34, ‘Relacion’, entries
for 7 and 9 Aug. 1588. C£ Herrera
Oria, 241, Medina’s ‘Relacion del
viaje’ for 6 Aug.
67. See the evidence in Parker, ‘The
Dreadnought revolution’; and the interesting
analysis in Adams, ‘The battle
that never was’.
389
68. Lilly Library, Bloomington (Indiana),
Bertendona Papers 171, Record of
service (describing events on ‘la vispera
de San Domingo’); AGS Estado 594/
116, Medina Sidonia to Parma, 4 Aug.
1588, copy. See also AHN OM 3511/
41, ducal apostil on Recalde to Medina
Sidonia, i Aug. 1588, stating that he
awaited an opportunity to board.
BMO, III, 1750, Guevara to Philip II,
22 Jan. 1588, having described English
naval tactics observed during his
captivity in England, drew entirely the
wrong conclusion from his extremely
useful intelligence: ‘so it would be
good to board at once and come handto-
hand’, he advised the king.
69. Raleigh, History of the World, part
I, book V, 297—8. See the excellent
summary of the battle in Pierson,
Commander of the Armada, 139.
70. Kemp, Papers of Admiral Sir John
Fisher, I, 40, Fisher to the Committee
of Seven, May 1904.
71. See details on ship construction in
Casado Soto, Los barcos, 206—9, ^rid
idem, ‘La construccion naval’. For the
last-minute concern over shortage of
guns, see KML MSP; CR 5/86, Philip
II to Medina Sidonia, 14 Mar. 1588,
with the duke’s holograph draft reply
on the dorse.
7 2. FD, II, 16-18, Instructions for Parma,
I Apr. 1588. Interestingly enough,
these were precisely the terms that
Don Juan de Zuniga had proposed in
his position paper of autumn 1585: p.
181 above.
73. AGS Estado 2219/84, Philip II to
Parma, 31 Aug. 1588, and fos 85-6
‘Apuntamiento en materia de armada
que Su Magestad mando hazer para
que se considere y resuelva entre el
duque de Parma, su sobrino, y el
duque de Medina Sidonia’ (four
foolscap sheets); and Estado 2219/91,
Notes by Idiaquez on 15 Sept. 1588.
On 7 and again on 14 Aug. the king
signed more letters insisting that the
success of the enterprise depended
upon his commanders’ adherence to
the ‘agreed plan’: see p. 71 above.
t
390 Notes to pp. 26^—
10 After the Armada
1. Aubrey, Brief lives, 147; Bruce, The
Liber Famelicus, 12-13 (™Y thanks to
Richard Kagan for bringing this reference
to my attention).
2. Percyvall, Bihlioteca hispanica\ Cockle,
A bibliography of military books, 43—4,
55; Blaylock, ‘The study of Spanish’.
3. Borman, ‘Untying the knot?’, 308.
4. For details see Thompson and Yun
Casalilla, The Castilian crisis of the seventeenth
century, especially chaps 1-2;
and Vassberg, Land and society, chap.
7. Philip II gave the figure of 10 million
ducats to the Cortes of Castile in
Dec. 1588: Actas de las Cortes, X, 348.
See also Lovett, ‘The vote of the
Millones’.
5. AGS GA 277/230, Dr Espinosa to
Philip II, 2 Jan. 1589, describing the
strange deaths of Armada survivors
sent to recover in his hospital at Salamanca;
Hamilton, Calendar of State
Papers relating to Ireland. . . iy88—g2,
121, examination of John Brown of
Clontarf, escaped from Ribadeo, 6
Feb. 1589 (on the itinerant mourners);
Sigiienza, 120; and Zarco Cuevas,
Documentos . . . Escorial, IV, 59 (Fray
Geronimo de Sepulveda on the
Armada’s impact).
6. See the criticisms of the Grand Strategy
reported by the Spanish resident
in Venice, AGS Estado 1342/142,
Giuseppe de Cernosa to Philip II, 3
Sept. 1588, and in note 14 below; the
criticisms to Philip in person by a
court preacher, reported in CSPV,
VIII, 396, H. Lippomano to Venice, i
Oct. 1588; and the data on the fall of
the ‘plaza prophets’ in Kagan, ‘Politics,
prophecy and the Inquisition’.
7. AGS Estado 2219/82, Don Juan de
Idiaquez to Parma, 31 Aug. 1588;
IVdeDJ 51/190, Mateo Vazquez to
Philip II and reply, 4 Sept. 1588.
8. ASV LP 46/82, Philip II to all Spanish
prelates, 13 Oct. 1588, copy (another
copy in BAV UL 1115/246).
9. BZ 145/76, Mateo Vazquez to Philip
II and reply, 10 Nov. 1588.
10. AGS Estado 2851, unfoL, ‘Lo que se
platico en el Consejo de Estado a 12 de
noviembre 1588’, and consulta of 26
Nov. 1588 with Philip II holograph
response; Actas de las Cortes, X, 348
and 422—3.
11. See details in Thompson, ‘Spanish
Armada gun procurement’, 79; idem,
War and government, 191—2; Rodriguez
Salgado and Adams, England, Spain
and the Gran Armada, 112—13 (including
a contemporary design for the new
galleons, clearly showing the broadside);
and Goodman, Spanish naval
power, -j-C). Botero’s Dalla Ragion di
Stato (1589) and Relationi universali
(1591) quoted by Gil, ‘Vision
europea’, 79-80.
12. AGS Estado 2855, unfol., ‘Lo que se
platico en Consejo de Estado a 10 de
henero de 1589, entendido el sucesso
del duque de Guisa’.
13. On Saluzzo see Altadonna, ‘Cartas de
Felipe II a Carlos Manuel’, 168—71:
Philip II to the duke of Savoy, 23
June, I Nov. and 23 Dec. 1588. The
League leaders received almost 1.5
million ducats in cash from Spain in
1589 and 1590: AGS CMC 2a/2 3,
unfol.. Accounts of Gabriel de
Alegria.
14. AGS Estado 2219/176, Philip II to
Parma, 11 May 1589. For examples of
criticism, see Casado Soto, Discursos,
157-71 (discourses of Apr. and Sept.
1588); Martin and Parker, Spanish
Armada, 268, Don Francisco de
Bobadilla to Philip II, 20 Aug. 1588
(written aboard the Armada flagship);
ASV NS 34/551-3, Novara to
Montalto, 13 Oct. 1588, quoting
a councillor of war ‘who said he had
affirmed from the start that it was
impossible for the Armada to join
with the duke of Parma’; and AGS
Estado 2851, unfol., ‘Lo que se platico
sobre la prosecucion de la guerra’, 12
Nov. 1588, ‘voto’ of Don Hernando
de Toledo (perhaps the councillor
quoted by the nuncio). Juan Martinez
de Recalde, the Armada’s secondin-
command, advised the king on his
return to Spain that ‘If the enterprise
Notes to pp. 2j^—6 391
of England is to happen. His Majesty
should remember that it would not be
wise to do it the same way as before,
bur only from Spain’ (see Parker, ‘El
testamento politico’, 18).
15. On the Anglo-Dutch offensive, see the
detailed account of Wernham, After
the Armada, chaps 4-6 and ii; and
idem. The expedition of Sir John Norris.
For a prediction that had the English
persevered in their march on Lisbon
they would have taken it, see BCR
Ms 2417/17, Don Juan de Silva to
Esteban to Ibarra, Coimbra, 19 June
1589.
16. AGS Estado 2219/197, Philip II to
Parma, 7 Sept. 1589. A week later, at
Arques, Henry IV routed the army of
the Catholic League, graphically confirming
the need to place France first
amid Spain’s strategic priorities.
17. AGS Estado 2855, unfol., ‘Sumario de
los quatro papeles principales que
dio el presidente Richardot’ and ‘Lo
que Su Magestad es servido que
se responda a los quatro papeles’ (ii
Nov. 1589: paper three dealt with the
possibility of peace talks).
18. See the important policy discussion
in AGS Estado 2855, unfol., ‘Lo que
sobre las cartas de Francia de Don
Bernardino y Moreo hasta las 6 de
hebrero se ofrece’ and the consulta on
it.
19. AGS Estado 2220/1, fo. 157, Philip II
to Parma, 4 Apr. 1590; and fo. 165,
confirmation dated 16 Apr. On the
course of Parma’s intervention in
France, and on the peace talks at Cologne,
see van der Essen, Alexandre
Farnese, V; on the first Brittany expedition,
see Tenace, ‘Spanish intervention
in Brittany’, 189—94.
20. KML MSP: CR 6/174, Philip II to
Medina Sidonia, 15 Dec. 1590; and
AGS Estado 2220/1, fos 4 and 6,
Philip II to Parma and the count of
Olivares, 12 Nov. 1590 (and the correspondence
in Estado 956-8). The
king specifically alluded to the ‘peaceplan
proposed by Parma, via his representative
Jean Richardot, one year
before: p. 274 above.
21. The phrase used by Don Juan de
Idiaquez in 1588 about the Low
Countries’ Wars: see p. 195 above.
22. See the detailed account of Gracia
Rivas, La ‘invasion’ de Aragon en iygi.
The ‘fugitive’ was none other than
Antonio Perez, who escaped from
prison in Castile while undergoing
rigorous questioning concerning his
role in the murder of Juan de
Escobedo.
23. BZ 141/203, Philip II to Mateo
Vazquez, 29 Jan. 1591; IVdeDJ 51/1,
Vazquez to Philip II, 8 Eeb. 1591 and
reply; Casado Soto, Discursos, 180—9, ^
discurso of Sept. 1591 transcribed
from Escalante’s own register (see
however BL Addl. 28456/123-7 for
another copy among the papers of Don
Cristobal de Moura, which demonstrates
that it reached the king’s
entourage). At least Philip resisted
pressure in 1594 from a new pope,
Clement VIII, to resume hostilities
against the Turks: see Borromeo,
‘Istruzioni generali’, 132-3.
24. AGS Estado 176, unfol., Philip II to
Santa Gadea, 3 Oct. 1596 (my thanks
to Edward Tenace for providing a
transcript of this interesting document).
The venture proved another
disaster: in August Philip determined
to send it to Ireland, where it would
occupy a town or two in the south;
when the fleet had still not left by
mid-October, the king suddenly
changed his mind and ordered it to
capture Brest in Brittany instead and
spend the winter there; however, they
set forth too late as usual, storms
srruck just after the new Armada left
Spain and one-quarter of the ships and
some 2,000 men never returned:
see Tenace, ‘Spanish intervention in
Brittary’, 518-25.
25. Lilly Library, Bloomington, Indiana,
Bertendona Papers, nos 21 and 24,
Philip II to Bertendona, 23 June and
15 Nov. 1589. ‘Security’ at Court
remained just as lax: in 1589 the
Venetian ambassador sent to his government
plans of Corunna copied from
‘the one which the council of War had
392 Notes to pp. 2j6—8i
before it’ (CSPV, VIII, 443, Contarini
to Venice, 3 June 1589.
26. Actas de las Cortes, XVI, 169-73,
Philip II to Juan Vazquez, 6 May
1593-
27. Ibid., 195-7, Philip II to Juan
Vazquez, 23 July 1593 (and replies
from the towns at pp. 230—48); and
Jago, ‘Taxation and political culture
in Castile’, 52—4.
28. See Vargas Hidalgo, ‘Documentos
ineditos’, on Philip’s debility; Bouza
Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles, I’, ii, on
the transaction of business; and Feros,
‘El viejo monarca’, on Moura’s power.
For an early example of Prince Philip
taking decisions, see ACA CA 36/325,
consulta of the council of Aragon, 25
Mar. 1594, with the prince’s holograph
‘rubrica’ and decision. For his
powers after Sept. 1597 see pp. 28 and
310 n. 65 above.
29. Complaints from Moura and others
noted in Feros, ‘El viejo monarca’.
On expelling the Jews, see AGS
SP libro 1160/185V and 1161/223V,
Philip II to the governor of Lombardy,
30 Oct. 1596 (with holograph postscript)
and 21 Jan. 1597. For more on
this strange episode see Segre, G/l ebrei
lonibardi.
30. PRO SP 94/5/273 ‘Relacion del viaje
del Adelantado’, Oct. 1597: the reluctant
mariners had a point — having
finally left Corunna on 19 Oct., a
storm drove them back a week later.
See a second copy of this document at
BAV t/L 1113/611.
31. Rijksarchief Arnhem, Archief van het
Huis Berg, 530, unfoL, Herman van
den Berg to count of Fuentes, 24 June
1595, minute. For further details on
the Spanish collapse in the Netherlands
and northern France in the
1590s, see Parker, Dutch Revolt, 230-
3; for their wasted opportunities in
Brittany, see Tenace, ‘Spanish intervention
in Brittany’, chaps 5—ii; for
the mutinies, see Parker, The Army of
Flanders, 185-206 and 290—2.
32. On Spanish aid to the Irish,
see Morgan, Tyrone’s rebellion, 206-10.
On the Cadiz raid, see Usherwood,
The Counter-Armada, 78—9, 84, 93
(entries in the journal kept by Sir
George Carew); Pierson, Commander of
the Armada, 203, 210, 278; and Chapter
9 above. On the destruction of the
Indies fleet (14 ships lost, 5 escaped),
see Chaunu, Seville et I’Atlantique, IV,
12-15, the eyewitness Spanish
account of Abreu, Historia del saqueo.
33. On Vervins, see Tenace, ‘Spanish
intervention in Brittany’, 568—72;
and Imhoff, Der Friede von Vervins. On
Henry IV’s conversion — promised
since 1589 but only effected in 1593 -
see Dickerman, ‘The conversion of
Henry IV’.
34. Quotation from Alcocer, Consultas del
consejo de Estado, 278, Philip Ill’s
response to a consulta of 26 Nov.
1602. On the reasons for Spain’s retreat,
see Allen, ‘The strategy of
peace’; the essays in Despues de la Gran
Armada: la historia desconocida\ and,
from the English point of view,
Wernham, The return of the Armadas.
Conclusion: Agent and Structure
1. Nightingale, Letters from Egypt, 74.
Many thanks to Carole Link for reading
and commenting on this chapter.
2. IVdeDJ 114/21, Don Martin de
Padilla, count of Santa Gadea and
adelantado of Castile, to Philip III, 27
Oct. 1599, copy. Padilla went on to
analyse the various failures of Spain’s
assaults on England between 1588
and 1599, and to offer specific suggestions
for why they had all failed. I
thank Paul Allen for bringing this
fascinating document to my attention.
See the interesting late examples
of ‘technological determinism’ in
explaining the failure of 1588 quoted
in Goodman, Spanish naval power, 6—7
(one from 1620, the other from 1639).
See also Fray Jose de Sigiienza’s bitter
judgement on the Armada debacle,
concluding ‘and the worst of it is
that no lesson was learnt from it’
(Sigiienza, 119-20).
3. Kamen, Philip, 308, Padilla memoNotes
to pp. 282—8 393
randum of 1596; CSPSp, IV, 690,
Padilla to Philip III, 10 Dec. 1601;
IVdeDJ 82/419, duke of Sessa (Spanish
ambassador in Rome) to Don
Balthasar de Zuniga (Spanish ambassador
in Brussels), 9 Nov. 1602; and
p. 124 above (Alba).
4. See the important collection of essays
in Farnham, Avoiding losses, taking
risks, especially the essays by Jack Levy
and Robert Jervis. I am very grateful
to Derek Croxton for bringing this
volume to my attention. See also Levy,
‘Loss aversion’, 186—9.
5. The duke of Sessa in 1600, quoted p.
Ill above; AGS Estado 2025/36,
Splnola to Philip III, 25 June 1607
(I thank Paul Allen for sharing this
document with me); AGRB Audience
643bis, Luis Verreycken to Archduke
Albert, Valladolid, 10 Leb. 1606.
6. The account in Allen, ‘The strategy
of peace’, chaps 8-10, supersedes all
others, demonstrating how the different
goals of Archduke Albert in Brussels
and Philip III and Lerma in Spain
opened the door to concessions that
Madrid had tried to avoid for thirty
years. See also pp. 157-63 above on
the different agendas of Brussels and
Madrid in the reign of Philip II.
7. Levin, ‘A Spanish eye on Italy’, 339,
Requesens to Gonzalo Perez, 3 Mar.
1565 (the letter bears an annotation
showing that the king also read it).
8. Monumenta historica societatis lesu, LX,
Ribadeneira, 22-9, Ribadeneira to Cardinal
Quiroga, 16 Feb. 1580. Teresa
of Avila agreed: Fernandez Alvarez,
Eelipe 11, 533—5. A very similar
dilemma faced Philip IPs greatgrandson,
Louis XIV of France, when
Charles II of Spain bequeathed his entire
inheritance to Philip of Anjou: if
Louis (on Anjou’s behalf) accepted, it
would probably provoke a major
European war; if he declined, the
entire Spanish Monarchy would pass
to France’s enemies, the Austrian
Habsburgs (and, if they refused, to the
duke of Savoy). After agonized debate,
Louis accepted: see Lossky, Louis XIV,
260—2.
9. Actas de las Cortes, III, 18-20, ‘proposition’
read by Francisco de Erasso,
1570; Lebow and Stein, We all lost the
Cold War, 42—8; Gaddis, We now
know, 260—78.
10. On the Philippines, see Phelan, The
hispanization of the Philippines, 14; and
Headley, ‘Spain’s Asian presence’,
635; on Ceylon, described as early as
1603 as a ‘sumidouro’ (a ‘bottomless
pit’), see Abeyasinghe, Portuguese rule,
especially 38-41.
11. BMO, II, 420, Philip II to the count of
Olivares, 18 Nov. 1586, minute.
12. AGS Estado 590/23, Parma to
Philip II, 28 Eeb. 1586; BL Sloane
262/67V, from the ‘Ephemeris or
diarie’. The full passage reads: ‘The
duke of Parma, sore offended with
God, hath saide he verilie thinketh
that God is sworne Englishe (he is
and so will alwaies shewe himselfe to
be!).’
13. AGRB SEG 195/64, Philip IV to
Infanta Isabella (Philip’s daughter,
still governing the Netherlands), 9
Aug. 1626. See also the resigned
phrase of historian Virgilio Malvezzi,
writing in the 1630s: ‘It is a particular
misfortune of this Monarchy never to
be at war with one [enemy] at a time’
(Malvezzi, Los primeros afios del reinado
de Felipe IV, 125).
14. AGRB SEG 183/170V-171, Zuniga
to Juan de Ciriza, 7 Apr. 1619, copy;
Elliott, Spain and its world, 241—2,
Olivares to the count of Gondomar, 2
June 1625. (Compare Olivares’s
emphasis on the need for leaders to
retain their self-confidence with the
very similar remarks of Alfred Jodi
quoted on pp. 291—2 above.)
15. See the perceptive remarks of Ikle,
Every war must end, especially 1—2, 18,
38-9 and 59.
16. Kagan, Lucrecia’s dreams, 80-5 (Philip
showed considerable interest in
Lucrecia’s dreams, and personally
approved the order for the Inquisition
to imprison and interrogate her: ibid.,
129, 132); BCR Ms 2417/19, Silva to
Esteban de Ibarra, 22 June 1589;
Soons, Mariana, 124, n. 19, quoting
394 Notes to pp. 288—
De rege et regis instructione, lihri III
(Toledo, 1599).
17. Kamen, Philip, 320 (quoting Braudel,
The Mediterranean, II, 1244); Gaddis,
We now know, 292.
18. See Bayly, ‘Knowing the country’,
10-17 (I thank Ian Petrie for bringing
this article to my attention); and
Bayly, Empire and information, chap. i.
19. Wernham, The return of the Armadas,
131, quoting Essex to Lord Henry
Howard, 7 Oct. 1596; HMC
Downshire, III, 128—9, Sir Thomas
Edmondes to William Trumble, 29
Aug. 1611. See also Walsingham’s
1588 lament that he had too much to
do: p. 226 above.
20. Millar, The emperor and the Roman
world, 5—7 and 203-72; Bartlett,
Monarchs and ministers, 206—7.
21. Bartlett, Monarchs and ministers, 4-5,
44,53; quotations from 59—60 and 10.
I thank Derek Croxton for drawing my
attention to this fascinating work.
22. Details from Potter, ‘Jefferson Davis’,
106—II (quotation from R. G. H.
Kean at p. 109, n.). Compare Davis’s
micromanagement — on occasion he
would visit battlefields and change the
disposition of regiments during action
— with Lincoln’s disclaimer to General
Grant in 1864: ‘The particulars of
your plans, I neither know nor seek to
know’ (ibid., 107—8). I thank Mark
Grimsley for drawing this article to
my attention.
23. Gaddis, We now know, 293. He added:
‘I find it increasingly difficult, given
what we know now, to imagine the
Soviet Union or the Cold War without
Stalin’. See also the substantial examination
of a twentieth-century without
Hitler by Turner, ‘Hitler’s impact’.
24. International Military Tribunal, The
Nuremberg Trial, XV, 295: testimony
of Alfred Jodi on 3 June 1946;
Warlimont, Inside Hitler’s headquarters,
177. It must be remembered
that both Warlimont and Jodi stood
accused of war crimes, for which the
former received a prison sentence and
the latter was executed: both therefore
had every incentive to show that they
played only ancillary roles in Hitler’s
system. The nature of this ‘polycratic’
system has been much debated: see
Kershaw, The Nazi dictatorship, and
Hildebrand, The Third Reich, 136-40.
See also the illuminating analysis of
Haffner, The meaning of Hitler - for
example, pp. 43-4 (the polycratic
state), 113 (reluctance to commit
combined with programmatic stubbornness),
and 121 (seclusion combined
with absolutism) - which offers
an uncanny parallel with the habits of
Philip II.
25. The Nuremberg Trial, XV, 299.
26. Jodi’s exchange with Hitler quoted by
Persico, Nuremberg, 248; his conclusions
by Warlimont, Inside Hitler’s
headquarters, 257. In the end Hitler
^ relented and Jodi kept his job - leading
him to trial and execution for war
crimes at Nuremberg.
27. Prom the diary entry of Hitler’s disgusted
chief of staff: Burdick and
Jacobsen, The Haider War Diary, 516.
This change of heart did not prevent
Guderian’s dismissal on Christmas
Day 1941 for allowing his forces to
withdraw before the Russian counteroffensive;
but it did secure him lavish
compensation in estates in Poland and
in cash.
28. General Otto Forster quoted by
Bullock, Hitler and Stalin, 578;
Haider’s diary entry for 22 Aug. 1941
quoted by Warlimont, Inside Hitler’s
headquarters, 191.
29. Warlimont, Inside Hitler’s headquarters,
641, quoting unpublished
notes kept by Jodi. Much the same
problem apparently persists: a 1997
Pentagon study of recent United
States military operations in Bosnia
noted a tendency to ‘saturate the warrior
with data while starving him of
useful information’ {Washington Post,
3 Apr. 1997, A22: my thanks to
Matthew Waxman for this item).
30. Raleigh, History of the world, 407;
Philip to Alba in 1571 quoted on p.
105 above.
31. ‘Thoughts on the late transactions
respecting Falkland’s islands’ (1771),
Notes to pp. 293—6 395
in Samuel Johnson, Political writings,
X, 365-6 (I thank Jeremy Black for
bringing this reference to my attention).
Cf. John F. Kennedy’s similar
reference to the ‘dark and tangled
stretches in the decision-making
process’ quoted at p. xv above.
32. On counterfactual protocols, see
Tetlock and Belkin, Counterfactual
thought experiments.
33. F. Aguilar de Terrones, ‘Sermon’,
quoted in El Escorial, 237.
34. Philip quoted on p. 105 above;
Gaddis, We now know, 291.
Note on Sources
I. Documents
‘As anyone working in the recent period knows,’ a recent article reminded
diplomatic historians, ‘it would take a lifetime to consult all the sources that in
theory one should.’ The same might be said for anyone working on the history of
Philip II because, as Pascual de Gayangos (a notable nineteenth-century scholar of
early modern Spain) observed with only slight exaggeration: ‘The history of Philip
II is in a way the history of the world’.^ William H. Prescott, author of the first
modern biography of the king (to whom Gayangos wrote), employed foreign
service personnel and research assistants to locate and transcribe documents:
Gayangos himself employed four copyists in the British Library alone and Prescott
continued ‘Philippizing’, as he called it, until shortly before his death in 1859.
Even so his three fat volumes, the product of sixteen years’ research, only cover the
first two decades of the reign.
Prescott and his team never located the core source upon which the present
study rests: the archive of Philip’s private secretary, Mateo Vazquez de Leca,
which contains the king’s correspondence with his most intimate policy advisers,
and also letters addressed ‘to be placed in the king’s hands’ (see pp. 26—7 above)
from about 1565 until Vazquez’s death in 1591. The tens of thousands of Philip’s
surviving holograph memoranda reveal more about the king’s strategic aims and
priorities — as well as about the matters that crossed the royal mind as he wrote —
than any other single source. These documents passed through many hands
(including those of the count-duke of Olivares, chief minister of Philip IV) until
in 1711 they reached the archive of the counts of Altamira. There disaster struck
them: in the nineteenth century some disappeared and the rest became scattered
- almost at random - between repositories in Geneva, London and Madrid, so that
the various memoranda written by the king to a secretary on the same day may
turn up in all four archives, while a message from a minister may be found today
in Geneva, with Vazquez’s cover note in London and Philip’s reply in Madrid.
Carlos Riba Garcia published the majority of the ‘billetes’ contained in just one
volume (now in the British Library), providing a precious example of the genre;
397
398 Note on Sources
but the collection contains over a thousand times as many documents. A modern
‘concordance’ of the Altamira collection represents one of the most urgent needs
facing those who want to ‘Philippize’ today.^
The copious records housed in the Archivo General de Simancas constitute a
second indispensable source for the study of Spanish policy in the later sixteenth
century. First and foremost come the Negociadon de Estado (State Papers), organized
by country (Aragon, Castilla, Flandes, Inglaterra, Francia, Alemania, Roma,
Genova and so on). This series contains the papers received and reviewed by the
council of State, whose members discussed incoming letters that affected government
policy, whether from countries ruled by Philip II or not. The papers of the
council of War (in the series Guerra Antigua) concern principally the defence of
Spain, but sometimes include documents relating to the Americas and Italy; those
of the councils of Italy, Portugal and Flanders (in the series Secretartas Provinciales)
mainly relate to patronage and internal administration in each dominion but
occasionally include material on international relations. The financial issues that
so perplexed Philip II generated several major series of records in Simancas: the
deliberations of, and letters and memorials addressed to, the council of Finance
{Consejo y Juntas de Hacienda)-, the audited accounts of those who disbursed government
funds or provided government loans {Contadurta Mayor de Cuentas)-, the fiscal
records of the various armies and navies financed by Castile {Contadurta del Sueldo,
with more in Contadurta Mayor de Cuentas).
Simancas does not contain all the archives of the central government, however.
To begin with, the records of the council of the Indies are in Seville (Archivo
General de Indias, series Indiferente General)-^ those of the councils of the Orders
and Inquisition are mostly in Madrid (Archivo Historico Nacional, Ordenes
militares and Inquisicion)-, those of the council of Aragon are in Barcelona (Archivo
de la Corona de Aragon, Consejo de Aragon). And from every series several documents
- including many of the most important - are missing. Some may be found
in the various parts of the Altamira collection (especially rich in consultas from
the councils of Finance and the Indies); others were looted or purchased by the
French in the nineteenth century (although many of these returned to Simancas in
1941). Others still the king ordered to be burnt — although sometimes his
secretaries disobeyed.^ Finally, although Philip sought to collect the papers of
his ministers at their death, he did not always succeed. Don Juan de Zuniga and
his brother Don Luis de Requesens amassed perhaps the largest collection of ‘state
papers in private hands — some 800 bundles and books of documents — which now
also form part of the Altamira collection, and may be found in the same four
locations as Vazquez s papers.*^ Cardinal Granvelle left almost as many documents,
most of them now scattered between the Bibliotheque Municipale in Besangon,
the Bibliotheque Royale in Brussels, and the Library of the Royal Palace in
Madrid. Two noblemen who served the king in prominent positions also left
major archives: the duke of Alba, whose extensive correspondence remains in the
library of his descendant’s Liria Palace in Madrid, and the duke of Medina Sidonia,
most of whose letters and papers may be consulted in the ducal archive at San
Note on Sources 399
Lucar de Barrameda (although the majority of those from 1587—89 are now in the
Karpeles Manuscript Library in Santa Barbara, California).^ By contrast, the
archive of Alexander Farnese, duke of Parma, suffered a double tragedy: the bulk
of his papers ended up in the Archivio di Stato in Naples, where most were burnt
by German soldiers in 1943; many of the rest, in Parma, have suffered severe
damage from damp.^ Nevertheless, as one nineteenth-century collector of Spanish
documents observed, ‘More manuscripts are destroyed by ignorant people than by
civil wars’; and examples abound of aristocratic archives ‘sold by weight to the
grocers’ that have, for the most part, never been seen again.
Naturally, each of the states governed by Philip II possessed its own institutions
and generated separate records, permitting historians to study the implementation
of the king’s policies on the periphery — although, here too, losses often
thwart the best-laid plans. The archives of several key Spanish institutions in
Naples and Milan — especially those of the viceroy’s or governor’s advisory
councils — have disappeared. The Brussels archives contain only the records of
organs run by Netherlanders until the 1590s: those of the Spanish institutions
created in the wake of the arrival of the duke of Alba in 1567 scarcely survive
before the early seventeenth century. Unfortunately, most strategic decisions in
the Low Countries after 1567 were taken by Spaniards. In Mexico, by contrast,
two series of documents offer an unusual view of the impact of royal power. In the
Archivo General de la Nacion, the first nine volumes of the series Mercedes
(sometimes known as the libros de gobierno) contain registered copies of apparently
all the orders issued by the viceroys, many of them rehearsing the royal command
that precipitated them; while the first two volumes of the series Cedulas reales
duplicadas list hundreds of Philip’s orders received in Mexico City, sometimes
with a note of the action taken. The Historical Archive at Goa, capital of
Portuguese India, likewise contains virtually all the letters received from Philip in
the 1580s and 1590s (filed in the Livros das Mongoes) but sheds little light on either
the execution of his orders or the policy debates in Goa about how to govern
outposts that stretched from Sofala to Nagasaki."
As noted in the Preface (p. xvii) above, the reports of the various envoys at the
Court of Spain fill some lacunae in the surviving government records and also
provide some detail on the decision-makers. Twelve governments maintained
ambassadors throughout the reign: the emperor, the pope, France, Savoy, Genoa,
Venice, Mantua, Parma, Ferrara, Lucca, Florence and Urbino. In addition, England
maintained a resident envoy until 1568, as did Portugal until 1580. The
dispatches of a few ambassadors have been published in extenso: for France, those
of Laubespine (1559—62), St Sulpice (1562—65), Fourquevaux (1565-72) and
Longlee (1582-92); for Venice, those of Dona (1570-73)." In addition, the letters
of English agents in Spain were summarized in the Calendar of State Papers Foreign:
Elizabeth (18 volumes to 1585, when the outbreak of war virtually closed the
peninsula to Elizabeth’s diplomats); while those of all Venetian envoys abroad
(as well as the deliberations of the Senate) that contained material relating to
Elizabethan England fill volumes VI to IX of the Calendars of State Papers Venetian.
400 Note on Sources
The closing ‘Relations’ made by each Venetian ambassador to the Senate after his
tour abroad, some of them running to over a hundred printed pages, have been
published twice, once in a somewhat haphazard and incomplete form by E. Albert
in the nineteenth century, and in their entirety by L. Firpo, in Relazioni: volume
VIII, pp. 232-938, of his series covers the envoys to Philip’s Court 1557-98. L.
Serrano printed the entire diplomatic correspondence between Rome and Madrid
between 1565 and 1572 — both between Pope Pius V and his nuncios and between
Philip II and his ambassadors - in four volumes; while N. Mosconi included many
dispatches in his study of the nunciature of Cesare Speciano, bishop of Novara,
(1586-88). The dispatches of the long-serving imperial ambassador Khevenhiiller
(1574-1606) remain unpublished (although most of his originals survive in
Vienna, as do his own registers of outgoing letters in the Oberosterreichisches
Landesarchiv in Linz), but his ‘secret journal’ has been printed. As for the rest,
the diplomatic dispatches in the archives of Florence, Genoa, Lucca, Mantua,
Modena (for Ferrara), Parma, Turin (for Savoy) and the Vatican (for the Papacy and
also Urbino) remain in manuscript; as do those of French Ambassador St Gouard
(1572—80: in the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris, Ms Ponds frangais 16,104—
16,108), and those of the other long-serving imperial ambassador of this period,
Adam Dietrichstein (1564-73: in the Haus-, Hof-, und Staatsarchiv, Vienna,
with more material in the Rodinny Archiv Ditrichsteinu in the Moravian State
Archives at Brno).
The papers of Philip’s principal declared enemies also present problems. Those
of the Ottoman empire and its North African vassals require linguistic and
palaeographic skills which few possess, although some publications by those few
reveal just how much material exists to reconstruct the Grand Strategy of one of
the principal early modern Islamic states.England has been superbly served by
her archivists, who have published an astonishing range of sources. The series of
Calendars of the various documentary series preserved in the Public Record Office
are unique. In the words of the lapidary statement that opens every volume: ‘The
entries should be so minute as to enable the reader to discover not only the general
contents of the originals, but also what they do not contain.The archive of the
Secretaries of State has been particularly well served: every document concerning
Ireland and Scotland has been summarized in separate series; those received from
agents and well-wishers all over the continent, as well as from foreign sources, are
resumed (often with substantial verbatim extracts) in a single chronological
sequence entitled State Papers, Foreign Series. State Papers, Domestic Series calendars
(often very briefly) every document received by the Secretary of State from correspondents
in England and Wales. In addition, the Public Record Office sent
scholars to other major European archives and libraries to transcribe documents
relevant to British history, and a translated precis of these documents from
Venice, Spain and (in rather less detail) Rome and Milan has been published
(unfortunately no calendars were ever prepared for France, Germany, the Netherlands
or Scandinavia). The registers of decisions taken by the Privy Council have
been published in their entirety (although unfortunately for the present project
Note on Sources 401
the original volume covering June 1582-February 1586 has been lost).^^ By
contrast, the huge surviving records of the financial officers of the Tudor state (also
in the Public Record Office) have been largely neglected: none of the ‘Declared
Accounts’ of those who handled public funds, preserved in the series Exchequer and
Audit Office (PRO E315 and AOi), has been published or calendared; yet the series
provides a relatively complete picture of how Elizabeth paid for her struggle
against Philip II (just as the Contaduria records in Simancas do for Castile); while
the section mysteriously labelled Ordnance Office Miscellanous (WO55) provides
vital evidence of how she managed to avoid defeat.
Naturally, as in Spain, not all government records ended up in public archives.
William Cecil, Lord Burghley, Elizabeth’s principal adviser until his death in
1598, left an extensive collection of state papers now divided between the archive
of his descendants at Hatfield House and several manuscript collections in the
British Library; Francis Walsingham, her Secretary of State and ‘Spymaster’ from
1572 until his death in 1589, also left a substantial private archive, most of it also
now in the British Library; while the copious papers of Robert Dudley earl of
Leicester, her ‘favourite’ until his death in 1588, lie scattered among a bewildering
array of private collections. Here again, however, British archivists have
created a magnificent research tool: the Historical Manuscripts Commission publishes
meticulous calendars for most of the leading private archives, providing
verbatim transcripts of many important documents and a precis of the rest.^^
Details on other collections may be obtained through the National Register of
Archives. Finally, in contrast to the archives of Philip II and his ministers, most
papers generated by Elizabeth and her councillors remain in England: one significant
exception is the splendid ‘Hastings Collection’ at the Huntington Library in
San Marino, California, which contains the archive of the earl of Huntingdon,
charged with the defence of northern England during the Armada emergency.
The surviving records of France and of the Dutch Republic in the later
sixteenth century present far more problems. In the former, the religious wars and
the French Revolution caused the loss or dispersion of many of the central
government archives, so that it is now extremely difficult to trace the stages by
which the French crown framed its foreign policy. Pride of place, however, goes
to the massive published collections of letters written by Catherine de Medici, the
dominant figure in government from 1560 almost until her death in 1589, and of
her son Henry III; then to the various ‘Memoires’ written by military and political
leaders. The published correspondence of Ambassadors Laubespine and
Fourquevaux in Spain (p. 399 above) includes the letters directed to them from
Paris and thus offers important insights on French policy. For the rest, however,
the documents in the Bibliotheque Nationale and Archives Nationales (especially
the section Archives privA) in Paris contain most of the surviving material.
The documentary situation in the Netherlands is somewhat better. The
archives of the ‘sovereign body’ from 1576, the States-General, have been extensively
published: all their resolutions, and a considerable amount of supporting
documentation, have been printed in a series of chronological volumes in each of
402 Note on Sources
which the entries are arranged thematically (‘War’, ‘Trade’, etc.). The domestic
and foreign correspondence handled by officials of the assembly, however, must
still be consulted in the Algemeen Rijlcsarchief in the Hague. At first the letters
were filed in four series: England, France, Germany and ‘ordinary’ (for all the rest),
which simplifies consultation at least for the i58os.^° From 1581 the council of
State (Raad van State) oversaw the day-to-day conduct of war, and its registers of
deliberations - kept in French until 1587 (for the benefit first of the duke of Anjou
and then of the earl of Leicester and their advisers) and thereafter in Dutch -
provide a wealth of information both on the Republic’s military operations and on
what it heard about the enemy.Many crucial decisions were taken by the
institutions of the various provinces that made up the Republic, however: the
States of Holland, also meeting in the Hague (whose resolutions have been
published verbatim: Resolutien van de Staten van Holland)-, the States of Zeeland,
meeting in Middelburg (whose resolutions have also been flilly published: Notulen
van de Staten van 7.eeland)', and so on. Each province also possessed its own Audit
Office {Rekenkamer), which supervised the raising and disbursement of local
money; its own Admiralty {Admiraliteit), which handled the collection of tolls
and escort taxes as well as coastal defence; and its own law courts. Each province
also had a governor (stadhouder), a post that in Holland, Zealand and some
other provinces was almost always held after 1572 by members of the house of
Nassau, and their family archive in the Hague (the Koninklijke Huisarchief)
contains many riches besides the correspondence published by Groen van
Prinsterer {Archives ou correspondance de la maison d’Orange-Nassau) and Gachard
(Correspondance de Guillaume le Taciturne). Another important officer of the
Republic during the reign of Philip II left important private archives: Johan van
Oldenbarnevelt (pensionary of the States of Holland from 1586 until 1619).
Much of his early correspondence was published by Haak, Oldenbarnevelt. Inevitably,
many crucial documents concerning the defence of the Dutch Republic are
to be found abroad: in Belgium, in England, in France, and above all in Spain -
for until 1592, at least, Philip II dominated international relations throughout
western Europe.
II. Published work
Perhaps because of this, Philip II has generally had a bad press. Outside Spain, few
of his contemporaries found a good word for him. In 1581 Prince William of
Orange, leader of the Dutch Republic, published an Apology which accused Philip
{inter alia) of incest, lechery, sodomy and the murder of his eldest son.^^ In 1598,
one of the king’s exiled ministers, Antonio Perez, published a volume of documents
and commentaries that portrayed Philip II as a petty, vindictive and rather
obtuse tyrant. Dutch, Latin, French and English translations soon followed. In
the same year Joao Teixeira, a Portuguese exile in England, completed a treatise
entitled The anatomy of Spain , which included a searing indictment of Spanish
Note on Sources 403
imperialism in general and of Philip II in particular.^"* By then criticisms had
begun to circulate widely in Spain as well. Also in 1598 Balthasar Alamos de
Barrientos, an imprisoned supporter of Antonio Perez, completed a tract that
excoriated the weak international position in which Philip II had left Spain and
called for a new offensive spirit; and the following year Inigo Ibanez de Santa
Cruz, a royal secretary, circulated a manuscript that ridiculed and condemned the
late king’s personal habits as well as his policies.
These sundry works became the staple of almost every subsequent account
written outside Spain, their details and anecdotes repeated and embellished time
after time until they achieved immortality in the vivid prose of the Romantic
American historian John Lothrop Motley, whose Rise of the Dutch Republic of 1856
presented an unforgettable portrait of Philip as a perfidious hypocrite in private
and a pedantic autocrat in public: ‘the common enemy of Christendom’, a man
whose ‘malignity and duplicity’ were almost superhuman, a monster who ‘lacked
a single virtue’ and was prevented from possessing every vice only because ‘no
human can obtain perfection, even in evil’. With his narrative organized into five
‘acts’, like a drama for the stage. Motley presented a seductively intimate picture
of an obsessive, weak and stupid man endowed with supreme power.^^
Needless to say, it is a picture to be discarded: even though supported by
extensive use of contemporary sources. Motley’s account bristled with distortions,
mainly because his sources were themselves distorted. If we are to understand
Philip II and his strategic goals aright we must forget almost everything published
by Perez, Orange, Teixeira, Ibanez and Alamos; but what can be set in their
place? The king did not welcome biographies as his father had done: although at
least two of his officials composed them in his early years, they remained unpublished.
When in 1585 Secretary of State Don Juan de Idiaquez commissioned the
young Antonio de Herrera y Tordesillas to write a history of Philip’s reign, he
expressly forbade him to deal with the king’s ‘life’, recommending instead a
‘History of the world’ starting in 1559. Herrera complied, presenting the king as
the principal actor in all the major events of his day but never revealing his
personality. Early in the seventeenth century two collections of anecdotes about
Philip appeared — Lorenzo vander Hammen’s Don Felipe el Prudente in 1625 and
Balthasar Porreno’s Dichos y hechos del Rey Felipe II three years later — but they stood
alone. Although some other writers, such as Cabrera de Cordoba, wrote histories
of the king’s times, no new biography by a Spaniard appeared until the nineteenth
century.
Even so, relatively little has ever been written about the foreign policy of Philip
II, and still less about his strategic vision. The most substantial work on the
former is the study of Fernandez Alvarez, Polttica mundial de Carlos V y Felipe II,
although it contains more material on Charles V than on his son; but see also
Braudel, The Mediterranean, part III; Lapeyre, has etapas de la polttica exterior de
Felipe II; Doussinague, La polttica exterior de Espana en el siglo XVI; and Pagden,
Spanish imperialism and the political imagination. Two excellent monographs cover
the 1550s: Lutz, Christianitas Afflicta; and Rodriguez-Salgado, The changing face
404 Note on Sources
of empire. Also recommended for the 1580s and early 1590s is Jensen, Diplomacy
and dogmatism. See also the annotated bibliography in Aguardo Bleye, Manual de
Historia de Espana, II.
Beyond these studies, those interested more generally in the king and his world
can consult the legion of modern biographies available in a bewildering range of
languages. Those published before 1983 are conveniently listed (by century) in
Palau y Dulcet, Manual del lihrero hispano-americano. III, 86—90, with further items
in the bibliography to El Escorial. Biblioteca de una epoca, 310-46. The recent works
Checa, Felipe II, Parker, Philip II, and Kamen, Philip of Spain also cite many
subsequent works. Much, of course, remains to be done and the fourth centenary
of the king s death in 1998 surely bring forth many other new studies
(besides this one) so that, like William Hickling Prescott, ‘Philippizing’ by
historians will no doubt go on well into the twenty-first century.
Notes
1. Immerman, The history of United States foreign policy, Gardiner, *Prescott*s
most indispensable aide: Pascual de Gayangos’, 99. Prescott himself merely claimed that
‘The history of Philip the Second is the history of Europe during the latter half of the
sixteenth century’ (Prescott, History, I, iv).
2. On the remarkable history of the Altamira archive, see the seminal article of Andres, ‘La
dispersion de la valiosa coleccion . The documents may be found today among the envtos
of the Institute de Valencia de Don Juan and the cajas of the Biblioteca de Zabalburu in
Madrid, in the ‘Collection manuscrite Edouard Favre’ of the Bibliotheque Publique et
Universitaire in Geneva, and among the Additional Manuscripts of the British Library
in London. The 43*^ pages of Riba Garcia, Correspondencia privada, published most (but
not all) of the contents of BL Addl 28,263.
3- Heredia Herrera, Catdlogo, printed in full the royal apostil to each surviving consulta in
the Archivo General de Indias. The first two volumes in the series cover the reign of
Philip II.
4. The documents were listed, while still in France, by Daumet, ‘Inventaire de la Collection
Tiran’; and Paz, Catdlogo de documentos espanoles. These documents now fill AGS Estado
^334~43 ~ ^ remarkably rich and unjustly neglected collection.
5. BMB Mr Granvelle 23/10, Philip II to Granvelle, 7 July 1566, claiming that many of
Granvelle’s letters ‘he quemado por mayor seguridad’; in his last will and testament, the
king ordered his entire correspondence with Diego de Chaves, his confessor, to be burnt
(p. 333 n. 90 above). But see also IVdeDJ 38/70, Cardinal Espinosa to Philip II and
reply, undated (but 1569) giving vent to his frustrations and ending ‘Burn this paper
once you have seen it, because it serves no purpose’ (see the text on p. 45 above). The
cardinal’s secretary, Mateo Vazquez, wrote on the dorse: ‘Attention! This must be seen
by no one except His Majesty.’ For more examples, see Bouza Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles
— y quemarlos - en tiempos de Felipe II. La documentacion de Juan de Zuniga, I’.
6. See Bouza Alvarez, ‘Guardar papeles - y quemarlos - en tiempos de Felipe II. La
documentacion de Juan de Zuniga, II. See also Andres, ‘La dispersion’, for the process
by which the Zuniga brothers’ papers came to the Altamira archive.
7. PEG and CCG published most of Granvelle’s letters from the first two repositories, but
included virtually none from Madrid (nor from the Altamira collection which also
includes numerous holograph letters from the cardinal to the king): for a good survey of
surviving sources see van Durme, Cardenal Granvela, 3-25.
Note on Sources 405
8. Alba’s outgoing letters were almost all published in the Epistolario, but the Archivo de
la Casa de Alba preserves hundreds of incoming letters, including many from Philip II.
Maura, El designio, printed extracts from some of the Medina Sidonia letters now in the
Karpeles Manuscript Library in Santa Barbara.
9. See details in Dierickx, ‘Les “Carte Farnesiane” ’. In fact more of the duke’s papers
survive in Naples than Dierickx feared; and, equally fortunately. Professor Leon van der
Essen copied extracts of many documents into notebooks (‘cahiers’) before these disasters.
He published a large number in his biography, Alexandre Earnhe, and I am grateful
to his son Alfred, and to Professor Jan van Houtte, for making the ‘cahiers’ in their
possession available to me. See also Parker, Guide to the archives.
10. Munby, Phillipps studies, V, 13-14, Obediah Rich (a Boston bibliophile) to Sir Thomas
Phillipps, 20 Nov. 1843 (noting that he had just bought 120 manuscript volumes at 2
shillings each from a Madrid bookseller who was about to ‘sell by weight to the grocers’.
The batch included at least some Philip II manuscripts, one of which Phillipps bought.)
For further sales by weight see Andres, ‘La dispersion’, 608—9 617. For a chance
survival see BCR Ms 2417, a volume of letters excoriating almost every aspect of Philip
IPs government sent by Don Juan de Silva to Esteban de Ibarra, both of them senior
royal ministers, in the 1580s and 1590s. Yet one must not protest too much: countless
documents - especially diplomatic correspondence - from both public and private
Spanish archives were published in Co.Do.In.: see the checklist in Fernandez Alvarez,
Eelipe II, 20. Gomez del Campillo, Negociaciones, and Rodriguez, Alava, printed a lot
more.
11. Almost all Philip II’s extant letters to the viceroys were published in APO.
12. L. Paris, Negotiations-, E. Cabie, Ambassade-, Douais, Depeches-, Mousset, Depeches', and
Brunetti and Vitale, La corrispondenza. Many more unpublished letters of Laubespine
were tracked down by Fernand Braudel: see The Mediterranean, II, 1250.
13. Khevenhiiller-Metsch and Probst-Ohstorff, Hans Khevenhiiller.
14. For three examples see Hess, The forgotten frontier, Imber, Studies, 85—102; and
Kortepeter, Ottoman imperialism, 214—25.
15. On this unique development, see Levine, The amateur and the professional, chap. 5.
16. The original transcripts from foreign archives may be found in the eponymous
series PRO.PRO. Details on the various series of Calendars for the age of Philip II
will be found in the Bibliography. The Acts of the Privy Council were edited by J. R.
Dasent.
17. For Burghley’s papers at Hatfield House, see HMC Salisbury, for Walsingham’s, see the
apparatus criticus of Read, Walsingham', for Leicester’s, see Adams, ‘Papers of Robert
Dudley’, and Brugmans, Correspondentie.
18. Ferriere and Baguenault de Puchesse, eds, Lettres de Catherine de Medicis, and Francois,
ed., Lettres de Henri III. Other useful publications are described in the vintage study of
Hauser, Sources.
19. For some detailed references, see the apparatus criticus of 'Wood, The king’s army, and
Holt, The duke of Anjou.
20. See RSG. Of special interest is a small collection of important Spanish state papers from
1567 to 1574 seized in Brussels in 1576: ARA Staten Generaal 12,548, especially
loketkas 14A and 14B
21. ARA Raad van State 5 covers Mar-Aug. 1586; 6 covers June 1587-Mar. 1588; 7 covers
May—Dec 1588.
22. William of Nassau, prince of Orange, Apologie ou defense (Leiden, 1581), with numerous
further editions in French, Dutch, English and other languages. See the modern reprint
of the original English edition by H. Wansink (Leiden, 1969).
23. Antonio Perez, Relaciones: see the recent edition (from the 1598 text, published eleven
days after Philip IPs death) by A. Alvar Ezquerra (Madrid, 1986). See also the erudite
discussion of the work in Ungerer, A Spaniard in Elizabethan England, II, 280-321.
4o6 Note on Sources
24. Cambridge University Library, Ms Gg-6-19 ‘La anatomia de Espana’. The work was
translated into English for the earl of Essex in 1599; see Beinecke Library, Yale
University, Osborne shelves, fa. 20, ‘The anatomie of Spayne’, and the discussion in
Ungerer, A Spaniard in Elizabethan England, II, 275—6.
25. Alamos de Barrientos, Discurso politico, discussed on pp. 108-9 above. Ibanez’s intemperate
‘Pasquln’, and papers on his subsequent trial for treason, may be found in
AMAE MDFD Espagne 239/417-67; RAH Ms 9-3507; and BNM Ms 11,044.
26. Motley, The rise of the Dutch Republic. See the fascinating discussion of this work in Levin,
History as Romantic art, 186-209, and Kagan, ‘Prescott’s paradigm’.
27. The ‘Oratio’ of Viglius, written in the Netherlands, covered the king’s reign only until
1566 (and broke off in mid-sentence); the ‘Historia’ of Juan de Verzosa, written in
Rome, began in 1548 but only reached the 1570s: see, for the former, 'Wauters, Memoires
de Viglius et d’Hopperus, 7-157; and, for the latter, the introduction to Lopez de Toro,
Epistolas. For Herrera y Tordesillas, whose Historia general del mundo began to appear in
1600, see the brilliant anaysis of Kagan, ‘Felipe IE - who notes that Herrera coined
Philip’s enduring epithet ‘el Prudente’ in 1599.
Bibliography
This book rests principally upon manuscript material, and these are discussed in the Note on
Sources above. The following bibliography provides the full title of all primary and secondary
printed works cited in the notes.
Primary sources
Abreu, P. de, Historia delsaqueo de Cadizpor los ingleses en 1596 (ed. M. Bustos Rodriguez, Cadiz,
1996)
Actas de las Cortes de Castilla (17 vols cover the reign of Philip II, Madrid, 1882-89)
Aguado Bleye, P., Manual de historia de Espana (3 vols, Madrid, 1958)
Alamos de Barrientos, B., Discurso politico al rey Felipe III al comienzo de su reinado (ed. M. Sanchez,
Madrid, 1990)
Alcocer, M., Consultas del consejo de Estado, 1600—i6oy (Valladolid, 1930: Archivo Historico
Espanol, III)
Aldana, F. de, Obras completas (1593; ed. M. Moragon Maestre, Madrid, 1953)
Altadonna, G., Cartas de Felipe II a Carlos Manuel II Duque de Saboya (1583—96)’, Cuadernos
de investigacion historica, IX (1986), 137—90
Andres, G. de, ‘Diurnal de Antonio Gracian’, in Documentos . . . El Escorial, V, 19-12.-1 (for
1572-73) and VIII, 11-63 (for i57i and 1574)
Andrews, K. R., The last voyage of Drake and Hawkins (Cambridge, 1972: Hakluyt Society 2nd
series, CXLII)
Anon., ‘The chronicle of Queen Jane and of two years of Queen Mary’ (London: 1850: Camden
Society, 1st series XLVIII)
Anon., The edict and decree of Phillip king of Spain (London, 1597)
Bain, J., The Hamilton papers, II (Edinburgh, 1892)
Berwick y Alba, duchess of, Documentos escogidos del Archivo de la Casa de Alba (Madrid, 1891)
Berwick y Alba, duke of, Epistolario del 111 duque de Alba (3 vols, Madrid, 1952)
Birch, T., Memoirs of the reign of Queen Elizabeth from the year lySi till her death, I (London,
1754)
Bor, P., Geschiedenis der Nederlandsche Oorlogen (first edn. 1595—1601) II (Leiden, 1621), III
(Amsterdam, 1626)
Borrell, C., De Regis Catholici Praestantia (Milan, 1611)
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., Cartas de Felipe II a sus hijas (Madrid, 1988)
Breeder verclaringhe vande Vloote van Spaegnien. De Bekentenisse van Don Diego de Piementel (The
Hague, 1588: Knuttel pamphlet 847)
407
4o8
Brown, H. F., Calendar of State Papers . . . Venice, VIII (London, 1894)
Bruce, J., ed.. The Liber Famelicus of Sir James Whitelocke (London, 1858: Camden Society
Publications, LXX)
Brugmans, H., Correspondentie van Robert Dudley, graaf van Leycester (3 vols, Utrecht, 1931)
Brunetti, M. and E. Vitale, La corrispondenza da Madrid dell’ ambasciatore Leonardo Dona (lyjo—
1573) (2 vols, Venice-Rome, 1963)
Burdick, C. and H.-A. Jacobsen, The Haider War Diary, i^3g—ig42 (Novato, 1988)
Burnet, G., Memoires of the dukes of Hamilton (London, 1677)
Bustamente Callejo, M., ‘Consejos del capitan laredano Don Lope de Odna y de la Obra, al rey
Felipe II para la conquista de Inglaterra’, Altamira, I (1952), 75-82
Cabi^ E., Ambassade en Espagne de Jean Ebrard, seigneur de Saint-Sulpke (Albi, 1903)
Cabrera de Cordoba, L., Historia de Felipe II, rey de Espana (4 vols, Madrid, 1876 edn; vols I—II
originally published in 1619)
Calendar of State Papers, Domestic Series, Elizabeth, II (1581—91) (London, 1865)
Calendar of State Papers, Foreign Series, of the reign of Elizabeth (22 vols to 1588, London, 1863-
1936)
Calendar of State Papers relating to Scotland and Mary Queen of Scots (9 vols to 1588, Edinburgh and
Glasgow, 1899-1915)
Calvar Gross, J., J. I. Gonzalez-Aller Hierro, M. de Duehas Fontan and M. del C. Merida
Valverde, La batalla del Mar Oceano (3 vols, Madrid, 1988—93)
Camden, W., The historie of the most renowned and victorious Princesse Elizabeth (Latin original of
Part I, London, 1615; English translation, London 1630)
Campanella, T., De monarchia hispanica discursus (1600-1610; Amsterdam, 1640)
Canestrini, G. and A. Desjardins, Negociations diplomatiques de la France avec la Toscane, IV (Paris
1872)
Carnero, A., Historia de las guerras civiles que ha avido en los estados de Flandes (Brussels, 1625)
Casado Soto, J. L., Discursos de Bernardino de Escalante al rey y sus ministros (iy8y—i6oy) (Laredo,
1995)
Cauchie, A. and L. van der Essen, Inventaire des archives farnesiennes de Naples au point de vue de
I’histoire des Pays-Bas catholiques (Brussels, 1911)
Cimber, M. and F. Danjou, Archives curieuses de I’histoire de la France, ist series XI (Paris, 1836)
Cockle, M. J. D., A bibliography of military books up to 1642 (London, 1900)
Coleccion de documentos ineditospara la historia de Espana (i 12 vols, Madrid, 1842-95)
Coloma, C., Las guerras de los Estados Baxos (Antwerp, 1625)
Corbett, J. S., Papers relating to the navy during the Spanish War, 1383—1387 (London, 1898)
Correa, G., Lendas da India, vol. I, part i (Coimbra, 1922)
Correa Calderon, E., Registro de arbitristas, economistas y reformadores espanoles (1300-1^36).
Catdlogo de impresos y manuscritos (Madrid, 1981)
Couto, D. de. Da Asia, decada X (Lisbon, 1788)
Cunha Rivara, J. de, Archivo Portuguez-Oriental (6 vols. Nova Goa, 1857—76)
Dasent, J. R., Acts of the Privy Council of England, XIV (London, 1897)
Daumet, G., ‘Inventaire de la Collection Tiran’, Bulletin hispanique, XIX (1917), 189—99, XX
(1918), 36-42 and 233-48, and XXI (1919), 218-30 and 282-95
Didier, L., Lettres et negociations de Claude de Mondoucet, resident de Erance aux Pays-Bas (1371—
1374) (2 vols, Paris, 1891-92)
Donno, E. S., An Elizabethan in 1382. The diary of Richard Madox, Fellow of All Souls (London,
1976: Hakluyt Society, 2nd series CXLVII)
Douais, C., Depeches de M, de Fourquevaux, ambassadeur du roi Charles IX en Espagne, 1363—72 (3
vols, Paris, 1896—1904)
Encinas, D. de, Cedulario Indiano recopilado por Diego de Encinas (1596; ed. A. Garcia Gallo, 4
vols, Madrid, 1945-46)
Enno van Gelder, H. A., Correspondance frangaise de Marguerite d’Autriche duchesse de Parme.
Supplement (2 vols, Utrecht, 1942)
Bibliography
Evans, J. X., The works of Sir Roger Williams (Oxford, 1972)
Feltham, O., A brief character of the Low-Countries (written c. 1628; London, 1652; revised edn
1662)
Fernandez Alvarez, M., Corpus documental Carlos V (5 vols, Salamanca, 1974—81)
Fernandez Duro, C., La Armada invencible (2 vols, Madrid, 1888)
Ferriere-Percy, H. de la and G. Baguenault de Puchesse, eds, Lettres de Catherine de Medicis (i i
vols, Paris 1880-1909)
Firpo, L., Relazioni di ambasciatori veneti al Senato. III. Germania 1337—1634 (Turin, 1970)
Firpo, L., Relazioni di ambasciatori veneti al Senato, VIII Spagna 7497—1598 (Turin, 1981)
Fortescue, Sir John, The correspondence of King George the Third, IV (London, 1928)
Francois, M., Lettres de Henry III, roy de France (6 vols, Paris, 1959)
Furio Ceriol, F., El concejo y consejeros del prtncipe y otras obras (1559; ed. D. Sevilla Andres,
Valencia, 1952)
Gachard, L. P., La Bibliotheque Nationale a Paris, II (Brussels, 1877)
Gachard, L. P., Correspondance de Guillaume le Taciturne (6 vols, Brussels, 1849—57)
Gachard, L. P., Correspondance de Philippe II sur les affaires des Pays-Bas (5 vols, Brussels 1848—
79)
Gachard, L. P., ‘Notice de la collection dite des Archives de Simancas qui est conservee aux
archives de I’Empire, a Paris’, Bulletin de la Commission Royale d’Histoire, 3rd series III (1862),
9-78
Gentil da Silva, J., Strategie des affaires a Lisbonne entre 1393 et 1607. Lettres marchandes des
Rodrigues d’Evora et Veiga (Paris, 1956)
Gerlo, A. and R. de Smet, Marnixi epistulae. De briefwisseling van Marnix van Sint-Aldegonde. Een
kritische uitgave I. 1338—76 (Brussels, 1990)
Gomez del Campillo, M., Negociaciones con Francia (ii vols, Madrid, 1950—60: Archivo Documental
Espanol)
Gonzalez, T., ‘Apuntamientos para la historia del rey D. Felipe IF, Memorias de la Real Academia
de la Historia, VII (1832)
Gonzalez Davila, G., Teatro de las grandezas de la villa de Madrid (Madrid, 1623)
Gonzalez de Cellorigo, M., Memorial de la poUtica necessaria y util restauracion a la Republica de
Espana (Valladolid, 1600; ed. J. Perez de Ayala, Madrid, 1991)
Gonzalez Olmedo, F., Don Francisco Terrones del Cano: Instruccion depredicadores (1617; Madrid,
1946)
Gonzalez Palencia, A., Gonzalo P^ez, secretario de Felipe II (2 vols, Madrid, 1946)
Gravel, M., The Pentagon papers. The Defense Department history of United States decision-making on
Vietnam, IV (Boston, 1971)
Greenlee, W. B., The voyage of Pedro Alvares Cabral to Brazil and India (London, 1938: Hakluyt
Society 2nd series LXXXI)
Groen van Prinsterer, G., Archives ou correspondance inedite de la maison d’Orange-Nassau,
1332—1789 (ist series, 8 vols and supplement, Leiden 1835—47; 2nd series, I, Utrecht,
1857)
Groenveld, S. and J. Vermaere, ‘Zeeland en Holland en 1569. Een rapport voor de hertog van
Alva’, Nederlandse historische bronnen, II (1980), 103—74
Grotius, H., De rebus belgicis; or, the annals and history of the Low-Countrey-Wars (London, 1665)
Guevara, F. de, Comentarios de la pintura {c. 1564; Madrid, 1788)
Guillen Tato, J., Museo Naval. Coleccion de documentos y manuscritos ineditos compiladospor Fernandez
de Navarrete, XVIII (Nendeln, 1971)
Haak, S. P.,Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. Bescheiden betreffende zijn staatkundig beleiden zijn familie. I:
1370—1601 (The Hague, 1934)
Hair, P. E. H., To defend your empire and the faith: advice offered to Philip, king of Spain and Portugal,
c. 1390 (Liverpool, 1990)
Halliwell, J. O., Letters of the kings of England, II (London, 1846)
Hamilton, H. C., Calendar of State Papers relating to Ireland: Elizabeth, 1388—92 (London, 1885)
Bibliography 409
4^0 B ibliography
Lj6s Souvccs ds Ihistozvc ds lu pTiZfic&. ^\^l€SZ6C/& (1 —i6io). III. d.&s gu6TT6s d& Tcligion,
^539-1589 (Paris, 1912)
Heredia Herrera, A., Catalogo de las consultas del consejo de Indias, I (Madrid, 1972)
Herrera Oria, E., L,a Avmada invencible. Documentos procedentes del Atchivo General de Simancas
(Valladolid, 1929: Archive Historico Espahol, II)
Herrera y Tordesillas, A., Historia general del mundo del tiempo del Rey Felipe II, elprudente (2 vols,
Madrid, 1600—6)
Hicks, Letters and memorials of Father Robert Persons, I (London, 1942: Catholic Record Society
XXXIX)
Historical Manuscripts Commission Calendar of the manuscripts of the Most Honourable the
Marquess of Bath, V (London, 1980)
Historical Manuscripts Commission Calendar of the manuscripts of the Most Honourable the
Marquess of Downs hire. III (London, 1938)
Historical Manuscripts Commission Calendar of the manuscripts of the Most Honourable the
Marquess of Salisbury, III (London, 1889)
Historical Manuscripts Commission Twelfth Report (London, 1888), appendix, part IV,
‘Manuscripts of His Grace the duke of Rutland’
Historical Manuscripts Commission Fifteenth Report (London, 1897), appendix, part V,
‘Manuscripts of the the Rt. Hon. F. J. Savile-Foljambe’
Hopper, C., Sir Francis Drake’s memorable service done against the Spaniards in iy8y (London, 1863:
Camden Miscellany, V)
Horozco y Covarrubias, J., Tratado de la verdadera y falsa profesta (Segovia, 1588)
Hume, M!. A. S., Calendar of letters and state papers relating to English affairs preserved in, or
originally belonging to, the archives of Simancas: Elizabeth (4 vols, London, 1892-99)
International Military Tribunal, The Nuremberg Trial, XV (English version, London,
1948)
Japikse, N., Correspondents van Willem I, prins van Oranje, I (Haarlem, 1933)
Japikse, N., Resolutieen der Staten-Generaal van iy/6 tot i6ocj (14 vols. The Hague, 1917-
70)
Johnson, Samuel, Political writings, X (ed. D. J. Greene, New Haven and London, 1977)
Keeler, M. F., Sir Francis Drake’s West Indian voyage, iy8y~6 (London, 1981: Hakluyt Society,
2nd series CLXLVIII)
Kemp, P., The papers of Admiral Sir John Fisher, I (London, i960)
Kervijn de Lettenhove, B., Relationspolitiques des Pays-Bas et de I’Angleterre sous le regne de Philippe
II, I (Brussels, 1882)
Khevenhiiller-Metsch, G. and G. Probst-Ohstorff, Hans Khevenhiiller: kaiserliche Botschafter bei
Philipp II. Geheimes Tagebuch, ly48-160y (Graz, 1971)
Kupke, G., Nuntiaturberichte aus Deutschland, nehst erganzenden Aktenstiicken. ler Abteilung r 5 ? 5—
39, XII (Berlin, 1901)
Lalanne, L., Oeuvres completes de Pierre de la Bourdeille, sieur de Brantome, IV (Paris, 1870)
Lanz, K., Korrespondenz des Kaisers Karl V (3 vols, Leipzig, 1846)
Laughton, J. K., State papers concerning the defeat of the Spanish Armada (2 vols, London, 1895-
1900)
Le Glay, A. and J. Finot, Inventaire sommaire des archives departementales anterieures a ij^o. Nord,
sme B (6 vols, Lille, 1863-88)
Lopez de Toro, J., Epistolas de Juan de Verzosa (Madrid, 1965)
Lopez de Velasco, J., Demarcacion y division de las Indias (1575; Madrid, 1871: Coleccion de
documentos ineditos relativos al descubrimiento . . . de America, XV)
Lopez de Velasco, J., Geografta y descripcion universal de las Indias {lyq 4-, ed. J. Zaragoza, Madrid,
1894)
Lopez Madera, Gregorio, Excelencias de la Monarchia y reyno ck Espana (Madrid, 1597)
Machiavelli, N., The Prince (written in 1513, published 1532; English edn, ed. Q. Skinner and
R. Price, Cambridge, 1988)
Bihliography 411
Malfatti, C. V., Cuatro documentos italianos en materia de la expedicion de la Armada invencible
(Barcelona, 1972)
Malvezzi, V., Los primeros anos del reinado de Felipe IV (London, 1968)
Mansfelt, C. de, Castra dei (Brussels, 1642)
Masson, D., Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, IV (Edinburgh, 1881)
Maura Gamazo, G., duke of Maura, El designio de Felipe II y el episodio de la Armada invencible
(Madrid, 1957)
Memorien en adviezen van Cornells Pieterszoon Hooft, I (Utrecht, 1871)
Mendoza, Bernardino de, Comentarios de lo sucedido en las guerras de los Paises Bajos (1590;
Biblioteca di Autores espaholes, Madrid, 1948)
Monumenta historica societatis lesu, LX, Ribadeneira (Madrid, 1923)
Mosconi, N., La nunziatura di Spagna di Cesare Speciano, iy86—iy88 (Brescia, 1961)
Mousset, A., Depeches diplomatiques de M. de Longlee resident de France en Espagne iy82—iygo
(Paris, 1912)
Mulder, L., Hetjournael van Antonis Duyck (1591-1602; 3 vols. The Hague, 1862-66)
Notulen van de Staten van Zeeland iy88
Oliveira, F., A arte da guerra do mar (1555; Lisbon, 1983)
Orange, William of Nassau prince of, Apologie ou defense (Leiden, 1581; English edn, ed. H.
Wansink, Leiden, 1969)
Palau y Dulcet, A., Manual del librero hispano-americam. III (Madrid, 1983)
Paris, L., Negotiations, lettres et pieces diverses relatives au regne de Francois II, tirees du portefeuille de
Sebastien de L’aubespine (Paris, 1841)
Paz, J., Catalogo de documentos espanoles existentes en el Archive del Ministerio de Asuntos Extrangeros
de Parts (Madrid, 1932)
Percyvall, R., Biblioteca hispanica, containing a grammar, with a dictionarie in Spanish (London,
1591)
Perez, Antonio, Relaciones (1598; ed. A. Alvar Ezquerra, Madrid, 1986)
Perez de Herrera, L., Elogio a las esclarecidas virtudes de. . . Felipe II (Valladolid, 1604)
Pigafetti, F., Discorso sopra I’ordinanza dell’armata catolica (Rome, 1588)
Piot, C., Chroniques de Brabant et Flandre (Brussels,
Porreno, B., Dichos y hechos del Rey Don Felipe II (Madrid, 1628)
Porreno, B., Historia del Serentssimo Senor Don Juan de Austria (ed. A. Rodriguez Villa, Madrid,
1899)
Poullet, E. and C. Piot, Correspondance du Cardinal de Granvelle iy6y—iy86 (12 vols, Brussels,
1877-96)
Raleigh, W., ‘Excellent observations and notes concerning the royall navy’, in Raleigh,Judicious
and select essayes and observations (London, 1650), part III
Raleigh, W., History of the world (London, 1614)
Renold, P., Letters of William Allen and Richard Barrett, iyj2—iyg8 (Oxford, 1967: Catholic
Record Society)
Riba Garcia, C., Correspondencia privada de Felipe II con su secretario Mateo Vazquez iy6j~9i
(Madrid, 1959)
Ricotti, E., ‘Degli scritti di Emanuele-Filiberto, duca di Savoia’, Memorie della Real Accademia
delle scienze di Torino: scienze, morali, storiche, 2nd series XVII (1858), 69-164
Rodriguez, P. and J., Don Frances de Alava y Beamonte. Correspondencia inedita de Felipe II con su
embajador en Parts (iy64~iyjo) (San Sebastian, 1991)
Ruiz Martin, F., Lettres marchandes echangees entre Florence et Medina del Campo (Paris, 1965)
Salazar, J. de, Polttica espanola (Logroho, 1619; Madrid, 1945)
Salazar de Mendoza, Pedro, Monarchia de Espana (Madrid, 1770)
Sande, D. de, De missione legatorum iaponensium (Macao, 1590)
Santullano, J., Obras completas de Teresa de Jesus (Madrid, 1930)
Scott, W., The Somers collection of tracts (London, 1809)
Scott Thomson, G., ‘TheTwysden lieutenancy papers, iySy-1668’,Kent Records Society ,'K{\<y26)
412 Bibliography
Serrano, L., Correspondencia diplomdtica entre Espana y la Santa Sede durante elpontificado de San Pio
V (4 vols, Madrid, 1914)
Shaw, W. A., Report on the manuscripts of Lord De L’lsle and Dudley preserved at Pens hurst Place
(HMC Report No. 77), III (London, 1936)
Sigiienza, J. de. La fundacion del Monasterio de El Escorial (1605; Madrid, 1988)
Solorzano y Pereira, J., PoUtica indiana (Latin edn, 1629; Castilian edn, 1647; Biblioteca de
autores espanoles edn, Madrid, 1972)
Strada, F., De hello belgico, decas secunda (Rome, 1648)
Tassis, J. B. de, Commentarii de tumultibus belgicis sui temporis, in C. P. Hoynck van Papendrecht,
Analecta Belgica, Vol. II, part 2 (The Hague, 1743)
Taylor, E. G. R., The troublesome voyage of Captain Edward Fenton iy82-y. Narratives and
documents (London, 1959: Hakluyt Society, 2nd series CXIII)
Tellechea Idfgoras, J. L, Fray Bartolome Carranza. Documentos historicos. III (Madrid, 1966)
Teulet, A., Relations politiques de la France et de I’Espagne avec I’Ecosse, V (Paris, 1862)
Theissen, J. S., Correspondance frangaise de Marguerite d’Autriche, duchesse de Parme, iy6y-iy6y
(Utrecht, 1925)
Valdes, D. de, De dignitate regum regnorumque Hispaniae (Granada, 1602)
van der Essen, L., Les Archives Farnesiennes de Parme aupoint de vue de I’histoire des anciens Pays-Bas
(Brussels, 1913)
van der Hammen, L., Don Felipe el Prudente . . . rey de las Fspanas y Nuevo Mundo (Madrid, 1625)
van Eeghen, I. H., Dagboek van Broeder Wouter Jacobszoon . . . Prior van Stein (2 vols, Groningen,
1959)
van Meteren, E., Historie van de oorlogen en geschiedenissen der Nederlanden (1599; Gorinchem,
1752)
van Reyd, E., Historie der Nederlandtscher Oorlogen, begin ende voortganck tot den Jaere 1601 (1626;
Arnhem, 1633)
van Someren, J. F., La Correspondance du Prince Guillaume d’Orange avec Jacques de Wesenbeke
(Utrecht, 1896)
Vargas Hidalgo, R., ‘Documentos ineditos sobre la muerte de Felipe II y la literatura funebre
de los siglos XVI y XVII’, Bolettn de la Real Academia de la Historia, CXCII (1995), 377—460
Vazquez, A., Los sucesos de Flandes y Francia del tiempo de Alejandro Parnesio, II {Co. Do. In.,
LXXIII)
Vazquez de Prada, V., Lettres marchandes d’Anvers (3 vols, Paris, 1961)
Velazquez, L, La entrada que en el reino de Portugal hizo la S. C. R. M. de Don Philippe (Lisbon,
1583)
Voci, A. M., ‘L’impresa d’Inghilterra nei dispacci del nunzio a Madrid, Nicolo Ormanetto
(i 572-1577)’, Annuario dell’lstituto Storico Italianoper I’Etd Moderna e Contemporanea, XXXVXXXVI
(1983-84), 337-425
Wauters, A., Memoires de Viglius et d’Hopperus sur le commencement des troubles des Pays-Bas
(Brussels, 1858)
Weiss, C., Papiers d’f,tat du Cardinal de Granvelle (9 vols, Paris, 1841—52)
Zarco Cuevas, J., G. de Andres and others, Documentos para la historia del monasterio de San Lorenzo
FI Real de FI Escorial (8 vols, Madrid, 1917—62)
Secondary sources
Abeyasinghe, T., Portuguese rule in Ceylon 1^94-1612 (Colombo, 1966)
Adams, S., ‘The battle that never was: the Downs and the Armada campaign’, in Rodnguez-
Salgado and Adams, England, Spain and the Gran Armada, 173—96
Adams, S., ‘Favourites and factions at the Elizabethan Court’, in Asch and Birke, Princes,
patronage and the nobility, 265—88
Bibliography 41^
Adams, S., ‘New light on the “Reformation” of John Hawkins: the Ellesmere Naval Survey of
January 1584’, English Historical Review, CV (1990), 96—111
Adams, S., The outbreak of the Elizabethan naval war against the Spanish empire’, in
Rodriguez-Salgado and Adams, England, Spain and the Gran Armada, 45—69
Adams, S., ‘The papers of Robert Dudley, earl of Leicester’, Archives, XX (1990), 131-44
Alcazar Molina, C., ‘La politica postal espanola en el siglo XVI en tiempo de Carlos V’, in Carlos
V (7500-7558). Homenaje de la Universidad de Granada (Granada, 1958), 219-32
Allen, E. J. B., Post and courier service in the diplomacy of early modern Europe (The Hague,
1972)
Allen, P. C., The strategy of peace: Spanish foreign policy and the “Pax hispanica”, 1598—1609’
(Yale University Ph. D. thesis, 1995)
Alvar Ezquerra, A., Felipe II, la corte y Madrid en iy6i (Madrid, 1985)
Alvar Ezquerra, A., ‘Unas “reglas generales para remitir memoriales” del siglo XVI’, Cuadernos
de historia moderna, XVI (1995), 47-71
Andres, G. de. La dispersion de la valiosa coleccion bibliografica y documental de la Casa de
Altamira’, Hispania, XLVI (1986), 587-635
Angiolini, F., ‘Diplomazie e politica dell’Italia non spagnola nell’eta di Filippo IF, Rivista storica
italiana, XCII (1980), 432—69
Antolm, G., ‘La librena de Felipe II (Datos para su reconstruccion)’, Ciudad de Dios, CXVI
(1919), 477-88
Armitage, D., ‘The Cromwellian Protectorate and the language of empire’. Historical journal
XXXV (1992), 531-55
Arnold, T. F., Fortifications and the military revolution: the Gonzaga experience, 1530—1630’,
in C. J. Rogers, ed.. The Military Revolution Debate (Boulder, 1995), 201—26
Arrieta Alberdi, J., El consejo supremo de la corona de Aragon (1494-ijoy) (Zaragoza, 1994)
Asaert, G., ‘Een brug te veel. Antwerpens scheepsmacht tijdens het Parmabeleg, 1584-1585’,
in Van blauwe stoep tot citadel. Varia historica brabantica Ludovico Pirenne dedicata
(’sHertogenbosch, 1988), 129-40
Asch, R. G. and A. M. Birke, eds. Princes, patronage and the nobility. The Court at the beginning of
the modern age (Oxford, 1991)
Atti dei convegni internazionali sulla storia del Finale. La Spagna, Milano ed il Finale: il ruolo del
Marchesato Finalese tra medioevo ed eta moderna (2 vols. Finale Figure, 1994)
Aubrey, J., Brief lives (ed. O. L. Dick, London, 1967)
Aubrey, P., The defeat of James Stuart’s Armada, 1692 (Leicester, 1979)
Baetens, R., ‘An essay on Dunkirk merchants and capital growth during the Spanish period,’ in
From Dunkirk to Danzig. Essays in honour of Prof. Dr J. A. Faber (Hilversum, 1988), 117—43
Baguenault de Puchesse, G., La Politique de Philippe II dans les affaires de France, 1559—98’,
Revue des questions historiques, XXV (1879), 5-66
Balderstone, T., War finance and inflation in Britain and Germany, 1914—1918’, Economic
History Review, XLI (1989), 222-44
Barbeito, J. M., El Alcazar de Madrid (Madrid, 1992)
Barber, P., ‘England: monarchs, ministers and maps, 1550-1625’, in D. Buisseret, ed., Monarchs,
ministers and maps. The emergence of cartography as a tool of government in early modern Europe
(Chicago, 1992), 57-98
Barkman, S. H., Guipuzcoan shipping in 1571 ’, in Anglo-American contributions to Basque studies:
essays in honor of Jon Bilbao (Reno, 1977)
Barnard, C., The function of the executive (rev. edn, Cambridge, MA, 1968)
Bartlett, B. S., Monarchs and ministers. The Grand Council in mid-Ch’ing China, ly2^—1820
(Berkeley, 1991)
Bataillon, M., Erasmo y Espana: Estudios sobre la historia espiritual del siglo XVI (2nd edn, Mexico,
1950)
Bayly, C.A., Empire and information. Intelligence gathering and social communication in India, iy8o—
i8yo (Cambridge, 1996).
4^4 B ibliography
Bayly, C. A., ‘Knowing the country: empire and information in India’, Modern Asian Studies
XXVII (1993), 3-43
Beaumont, R., War, chaos and history (Westport, CT, 1994)
Beinert, B., ‘El testamento politico de Carlos V de 1548. Estudio critico’, in Carlos V. Homenaje
de la Universidad de Granada (Granada, 1958), 401—38
Belda y Perez de Nueros, F., marques de Cabra, Felipe II. Cuarto centenario de su nacimiento
(Madrid, 1927)
Bell, G. M., ‘John Man: the last Elizabethan resident ambassador in Spain’, The Sixteenth-century
Journal, VII.2 (October 1976), 75—93
Bely, L., Espions et ambassadeurs au temps de Louis XIV (Paris, 1990)
Benedict, P., ‘The St Bartholomew’s massacres in the provinces’. The Historical Journal, XXI
(1978), 205-25
Bennassar, B., Valladolid au Siecle d’Or (Paris, 1967)
Benson, N. L., ‘The ill-fated works of Francisco Hernandez’, The Library Chronicle of the
University of Texas, V (1954), 17—27
Berwick y Alba, duke of, Discurso: contribution al estudio de la persona de Don Fernando Alvarez de
Toledo, III duque de Alba (Madrid, 1919)
Beyerchen, A., ‘Clausewitz, non-linearity and the unpredictability of war’. International Security,
XVII.3 (1992-93), 59-90
Binchy, D. A., ‘An Irish ambassador at the Spanish Court 1569-74’, Studies, X (1921), 353-74
and 573-84
Bireley, R., The Counter-Reformation Prince. Anti-Machiavellism or Catholic statecraft in early modern
Europe (Chapel Hill, 1990)
Bitossi, C., II governo dei magnifici. Patriziato e politica a Genova tra 500 e 600 (Genoa, 1990)
Bitton, D. and Q. A. Mortensen, ‘War or peace: a French pamphlet polemic, 1604—06’, in
Thorp and Slavin, Politics, religion and diplomacy, 127—41
Black, J., Convergence or divergence? Britain and the continent (New York, 1994)
Blaylock, C., ‘The study of Spanish in Tudor and Stuart England’, in Selected proceedings: the
seventh Louisiana conference on Hispanic languages and literatures (Baton Rouge, 1987), 61-72
Bolzern, P^.,Spanien, Mailand unddie katholische Eidgenossenschaft. Militdrische, wirtschaftliche und
politische Beziehungen zur Zeit Alfonso Casati (Luzern, 1982)
Boratynski, L., ‘Esteban Batory, la Hansa y la sublevacion de los Paises Bajos’, Bolettn de la Real
Academia de la Historia, CXXVIII (1951), 451-500
Bordeje y Morencos, F. F., El escenario estrategico espanol en el siglo XVI (14^2-1 ^^6) (Madrid,
1990)
Borman, T., Untying the knot? The survival of the Anglo-Dutch alliance, 1587-97’, European
history quarterly, XXVII (1997), 307—37
Borromeo, A., Espana y el problema de la eleccion papal de 1592’, Cuadernos de investigation
historica, II (1978), 175—200
Borromeo, A., ‘Istruzioni general! e corrispondenza ordinaria dei nunzi: obiettivi prioritari e
resultati concreti della politica spagnola di Clemente VIII’, in G. Lutz, ed.. Das Papsttum,
die Christenheit und die Staaten Europas, iy^2—i6o^. Forschungen zu den Hauptinstruktionen
Clemens’ VIII (Tubingen, 1994: Bibliothek des deutschen historischen Instituts in Rom,
LXVI), 119-204
Bosbach, F., Monarchia universalis. Ein politischer Leitbegriff der friihen Neuzeit (Gottingen, 1988)
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘Corte es decepcion. Don Juan de Silva, Conde de Portalegre’, in Martinez
Millan, La corte de Felipe II, 451—99
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘Cortes festejantes, fiesta y odo en el cursus honorum cortesano’,
Manuscrits, XIII (1995), 185—203
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., Del escribano a la biblioteca. La civilizacion escrita europea en la alta edad
moderna (siglos XV-XVII) (Madrid, 1992)
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘Guardar papeles - y quemarlos - en tiempos de Felipe II. La
documentacion de Juan de Zuniga’, Reales Sitios, XXXIII.3 (1996), 2-15 and XXXIV.i
(1997), 18-33
B ihliography 415
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘Leer en palacio. De aula gigantium a museo de reyes sabios’, in
El libro antiguo espanol. III. El libro en palacio y otros estudios bibliograficos (Salamanca, 1996), 29—
42
Bouza Alvarez, F., Locos, enanos y hombres de placer en la corte de los Austrias. Ofcio de burlas (Madrid,
1991)
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘La majestad del rey. Construccion del mito real’, in Martinez Millan, La
corte de Eelipe II, 36—72
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., Monarchie en lettres d’imprimerie. Typographie et propagande au temps
de Philippe IF, Revue d’histoire moderne et contemporaine, XLI (1994), 206-20
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘Portugal en la Monarquia hispanica 1580-1640. Felipe II, las Cortes de
Tomar y la genesis del Portugal Catolico’ (Universidad Complutense de Madrid Ph.D. thesis,
1987)
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘Retorica da imagem real. Portugal e la memoria figurada de Filipe IF,
Penelope, IV (1989), 20—58
Bouza Alvarez, F. J., ‘Servidumbres de la soberana grandeza. Criticar al rey en la Corte de Felipe
IF (forthcoming)
Boxer, C. R., ‘Portuguese and Spanish projects for the conquest of Southeast Asia, 1580-1600’,
in Boxer, Portuguese conquest and commerce in southern Asia, i^oo-ijyo (London, 1985),
chap. 3
Boyden, J. M., The courtier and the king. Ruy Gomez de Silva, Philip II and the Court of Spain
(Berkeley, 1995)
Brand, H. and J., eds, De Hollandse Waterlinie (Utrecht, 1986)
Bratli, C., Philippe II, roi d’Espagne (Paris, 1912)
Braudel, F., The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean world in the age of Philip II (2 vols, London,
1972-73)
Braudel, P., Braudel antes de Braudel , in C. A. Aguirre Rojas, ed., Primeras jornadas
Braudelianas (Mexico, 1993), 84-96
Brayshay, M., ‘Plymouth’s coastal defences in the year of the Spanish Armada’, Reports
and transactions of the Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science, CXIX (1987),
169-96
Brayshay, M., Royal post-horse routes in England and Wales: the evolution of the network in
the later sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries’. Journal of Historical Geography, XVII
(1991), 373-89-
Breakwell, Glynis and Keith Spacie, Pressures facing commanders (Camberwell, 1997: Strategic
and Combat Studies Institute, Occasional Papers XXIX)
Brown, J. and J. H. Elliott, A palace for a king. The Buen Retiro and the Court of Philip IV (New
Haven, 1980)
Brown, K. M., ‘The making oi politique-, the Counter-Reformation and the regional politics of
John, eighth Lord Maxwell’, Scottish Historical Review, LXVI (1987), 152-75
Brulez, W., ‘Het gewicht van de oorlog in de nieuwe tijden, enkele aspecten’, Tijdschrift voor
Geschiedenis, XCI (1978), 386-406
Bullock, A., Hitler and Stalin. Parallel lives (New York, 1992)
Burkholder, M. A. and L. L. Johnson, Colonial Latin America (2nd edn, Oxford, 1994)
Cabantous, A., Histoire de Dunkerque (Toulouse, 1983)
Calabria, A., The cost of empire. The finances of the kingdom of Naples in the time of Spanish rule
(Cambridge, 1991)
Campbell, J., Grammatical man. Information, entropy, language and life (New York, 1982)
Cano de GardoquI, J. L., La cuestion deSaluzzo en las comunicaciones delImperio Espanol, iy88—i6oi
(Valladolid, 1962)
Cano de GardoquI, J. L., ‘Espana y los estados italianos independientes en 1600’, Hispania
XXIII (1963), 524-55
Cano de GardoquI, J. L., La incorporacion del marquesado de Einale (1602) (Valladolid, 1955)
Carlos Morales, C. J. de, El consejo de Hacienda de Castilla, iy2y—i6o2. Patronazgo y clientelismo
en el gobierno de las finanzas reales durante el siglo XVI (Valladolid, 1996)
4^6 B ibliography
Carlos Morales, C. J. de, ‘El poder de los secretarios reales: Francisco de Eraso’, in Martinez
Millan, ha corte de Felipe II, 107—48
Carrafiello, M. L., ‘English Catholicism and the Jesuit mission of 1580-1’, Historical Journal
XXXVII (1994), 761-74
Carter, C. H., ‘The ambassadors of early modern Europe: patterns of diplomatic representation’,
in Carter, ed.. From the Renaissance to the Counter-Reformation. Essays in honour of Garrett
Mattingly (London, 1965), 269-95
Carter, C. H., The secret diplomacy of the Habsburgs, 1^98-162^ (New York, 1964)
Caruana, A. B., The history of English sea ordnance, iy2y—i8jo, I (Rotherfield, 1994)
Casado Soto, J. L., Los barcos espanoles del siglo XVI y la Gran Armada de iy88 (Madrid, 1988)
Casado Soto, J. L., ‘La construccion naval atlantica espahola del siglo XVI y la Armada de 1588’,
in La Gran Armada (Madrid, 1989: Cuadernos monograficas del Instituto de Historia y
Cultura Naval, III), 51-85
Castillo, A., ‘Dette flottante et dette consolidee en Espagne, 1557-1600’, Annales: Economies,
Societes, Civilisations, XVIII (1963), 745—59
Cerezo Martmez, R., ‘La conquista de la isla Tercera (1583)’, Revista de historia naval, I.3 (1983),
5-45
Cespedes del Castillo, G., La visita como institucion Indiana’, Anuario de estudios americanos. III
(1946), 984-1025
Chabod, F., ‘Contrast! intern! e dibattiti sulla politica generale di Carlo V’, in P. Rassow and
F. Schalk, eds, Karl V: der Kaiser und seine Zeit (Cologne, i960), 51—66
Chabod, F., ‘Milan o los Pafses Bajos? Las discusiones sobre la Alternativa de 1544,’ in Carlos
V (iy,oo—iyy8). Homenaje de la Universidad de Granada (Granada, 1958), 331—72
Chandler, A. D., Strategy and structure. Chapters in the history of the industrial enterprise (Cambridge,
MA, 1962)
Charriere, E., Negociations de la France dans le Levant, II (Paris, 1850)
Chaunu, H. and P., Seville et I’Atlantique, 1^04—16^0 (8 vols, Paris, 1955-60)
Checa, F., ‘Felipe II en El Escorial: la representacion del poder real’, in El Escorial: arte, poder y
cultura en la corte de Felipe II (Madrid, 1989), 7—26
Checa, F., Felipe II: Mecenas de las Artes (2nd edn, Madrid, 1993)
Checa, F., Tiziano y la monarqma hispanica. Usos y funciones de lapintura veneciana en Espana (siglos
XVI y XVII) (Madrid, 1994)
Chevallier, P., Henri III. Roi shakespearien (Paris, 1985)
Christy, M., ‘Queen Elizabeth’s visit to Tilbury in 1588’, English Historical Review, XXXIV
(1919), 43-61
Clark, P., ed.. The European crisis of the lygos: essays in comparative history (London, 1985)
Cline, H. F., ‘The Relaciones geograficas of the Spanish Indies, 1577-84’, Hispanic-American
Historical Review, XLIV (1964), 341-74
Collinson, P., ‘The Elizabethan exclusion crisis and the Elizabethan polity’. Proceedings of the
British Academy, LXXXIV (1993), 51-92
Collinson, P., The English captivity of Mary Queen of Scots (Sheffield, 1987)
Constant, J. M., Les Guise (Paris, 1984)
Costantini, C., La Repubblica di Genova (Turin, 1986)
Cowley, R. and G. Parker, eds. The reader’s companion to military history (Boston, MA, 1996)
Cox, B., Vanden tocht in Vlaenderen. De logistiek van Nieuwpoort 1600 (Zutphen, 1986)
Craeybeckx, J., ‘La Portee fiscale et politique du looe denier du due d’Albe’, Acta historica
bruxellensia, I (Brussels, 1967), 342—74
Cressy, D., ‘Binding the nation: the Bonds of Association, 1584 and 1696’, in D. J. Guth and
J. W. McKenna, eds, Tudor rule and revolution (Cambridge, 1982), 217—34
Cressy, D., Bonfires and bells. National memory and the Protestant calendar in Elizabethan and Stuart
England (Berkeley, 1989)
Croft, P., English commerce with Spain and the Armada war, 1558—1603’, in Rodriguez-
Salgado and Adams, England, Spain and the Gran Armada, 236-63
Bibliography 417
Croft, P., The Spanish Company (London, 1973)
Cueto, R., 1580 and all that . . . Philip II and the politics of the Portuguese succession’,
Portuguese Studies, VIII (1992), 150-60
Cumming, W. P., ‘The Parreus map (1562) of French Florida’, Imago mundi, XVII (1963), 27-
40
Bandelet, T. J., ‘Roma hispanica: the creation of Spanish Rome in the Golden Age’ (University
of California at Berkeley Ph.D. thesis, 1995)
Danvila y Burguero, A., Don Cristobal de Moura (Madrid, 1900)
Davies, J. M., ‘The due de Montmorency, Philip II and the house of Savoy: a neglected aspect
of the sixteenth-century French civil wars’, English Historical Review, CV (1990), 870-92
Davies, J. M., ‘Neither politique nor patriot? Henry, due de Montmorency and Philip II, 1582-
1589’, Historical Journal, XXXIV (1991), 539-66
Dean, E. T., “‘We live under a government of men and morning newspapers.” Image, expectation
and the peninsula campaign of 1862’, Virginia Magazine of History and Biography,
CXIII (1995), 5-28
de Bueil, J. Lejouvencal (written in 1466; ed. C. Favre and C. Lecestre, Paris, 1889)
Delumeau, J., Vie konomique et sociale de Rome dans la seconde moitie du i6e siecle, I (Paris, 1957)
de Reiffenberg, B., Histoire de I’Ordre de la Toison d’Or depuis son institution jusqu’a la cessation des
chapitres generaux (Brussels, 1830)
Despues de la Gran Armada: la historia desconocida (Madrid, 1993: Cuadernos monograficos del
Instituto de historia y cultura naval, XX)
Destler, L. M., Presidents, bureaucrats and foreign policy. The politics of organizational reform (2nd
edn, Princeton, 1974)
Deswarte-Rosa, S., Ideias e imagens em Portugal na epoca dos descobrimentos: Francisco de Holanda e a
teoria da arte (Lisbon, 1992)
de Tome, P. O., Don Juan d’Autriche et les projets de conquke de I’Angleterre. Etude historique sur dix
annees du seizieme siecle (2 vols, Helsingfors, 1915-28)
de Tome, P. O., Philippe II et Henri de Guise: le debut de leurs relations (1578)’, Revue
historique, CLXVII (1931), 323—35
Devos, J. C., Les Chiffres de Philippe II (1533—1^98) et du despacho universal durant le XVIIe siecle
(Brussels, 1950)
Devos, J. C., ‘La Poste au service des diplomates espagnols accredites aupres des cours
d’Angleterre et de France (1555-1598)’, Bulletin de la Commission Royale d’Histoire, CIII
(1938), 205-67
Devos, J. C., ‘Un Projet de cession d’Alger a la France en 1572’, Bulletinphilologique et historique,
LXXVIII (1953-54), 339-48
Deyon, P., ‘Sur certaines formes de la propagande religieuse au XVIe siecle’, Annales: Economies,
Societes, Civilisations, XXXVI (1981), 16-25
Diaz Jimeno, F., Hado y fortuna en la Espana del siglo XVI (Madrid, 1987)
Diaz-Plaja, F., La historia de Espana en sus documentos. IV: el siglo XVI (Madrid, 1958)
Diaz-Trechuelo, L., ‘Consecuencias y problemas derivados del Tratado en la experiencia oriental
, in Ribot Garcia, El Tratado de Tordesillas, 1519—39
Dickerman, E. H., ‘The conversion of Henry IV: “Paris is well worth a Mass” in psychological
perspective’. Catholic Historical Review, LXIII (1977), i—13
Dickerman, E. H., ‘A neglected aspect of the Spanish Armada: the Catholic League’s Picard
offensive’, Canadian Journal of History, XI (1976), 19—23
Dierickx, M., Les Carte Farnesiane” de Naples par rapport a I’histoire des anciens Pays-Bas,
d’apres I’incendie du 30 septembre 1943’, Bulletin de la Commission Royale d’Histoire, CXII
(1947), 111-26
Dietz, F. C., English public finance, 1338-1641 (2nd edn, London, 1964)
Dfez del Corral, L., La Monarqma hispanica en elpensamiento politico europeo (Madrid, 1975)
Donagan, B., ‘Understanding Providence: the difficulties of Sir William and Lady Waller’,
Journal of Ecclesiastical History, XXXIX (1988), 433-44
4i8 Bibliography
Doria, G., ‘Un quadrennio critico, 1575-78. Contrasti e nuovi orientamenti nella societa
genovese nel quadro della crisi finanziaria spagnola’, in E. Dini et al., eds, Fatti e idee di storia
economica net secoli X//—XX. Studi dedicati a Franco Borlandi (Bologna, 1977), 377—94
Doussinague, J. M., La politica exterior de Espana en el siglo XVI (Madrid, 1949)
Doussinague, J. M., La polttica internacional de Fernando el Catolico (Madrid, 1944)
Drucker, P. F., ‘The coming of the new organization’. Harvard Business Review (Jan.-Feb. 1988),
45-53
Drucker, P. F., The effective executive (New York, 1967)
Durand-Lapie, P., ‘Un roi detrone refugie en France: Dom Antoine ler de Portugal (1580-95)’,
Revue d’histoire diplomatique, XVIII (1904), 133-345, 275-307, 612-40 and XIX (1905),
113—28 and 243—60
Duviols, P., La lutte centre les religions autochtones dans le Perou colonial. ‘L’extirpation de I’idoldtrie’
entre 1^32 et 1660 (Lima, 1971)
Echevarria Bacigalupe, M. A., La diplomacia secreta en Flandes, 1398—1643 (Leioa, 1984)
Edelmayer, F., ‘Habsburgische Gesandte in Wien und Madrid in der Zeit Maximilians II.’, in
W. Kramer, ed., Spanien und Osterreich in der Renaissance (Innsbruck, 1989), 57—70
Edelmayer, F., ‘Honor y dinero. Adam de Dietrichstein al servicio de la Casa de Austria’, Revista
studia historica, XI (1993), 89—116
Edelmayer, F., Maximilian IL, Philipp IL, und Reichsitalien. Die Auseinandersetzungen um des
Reichslehen Finale in Ligurien (Stuttgart, 1988)
Edwards, C. R., ‘Mapping by geographical positions’. Imago mundi, XXIII (1969), 17-28
Edwards, F., The marvellous chance. Thomas Howard, fourth duke of Norfolk and the Ridolphi plot,
i3jo—iyj2 (London, 1968)
Edwards, M. U., ‘Catholic controversial literature, 1518-1555: some statistics’, Archiv fur
Reformationsgeschichte, LXXIX (1988), 189-204
Eguiluz, M. de, Milicia, discurso y regia militar (Madrid, 1592)
Einaudi, G., ed., Storia d’ltalia, II (Turin, 1974)
Eire, C. M. N., From Madrid to purgatory: the art and craft of dying in sixteenth-century Spain
(Cambridge, 1995)
El Escorial. Biblioteca de una epoca. La historia (Madrid, 1986)
Elias, J. E., De vlootbouw in Nederland in de eerste helft der lye eeuw (Amsterdam, 1937)
Elliott, J. H., The count-duke of Olivares. The statesman in an age of decline (New Haven, 1986)
Elliott, J. H., ‘The court of the Spanish Habsburgs: a peculiar institution?’, in Elliott, Spain and
its world, 142—61
Elliott, J. H., ‘A Europe of composite monarchies’. Past and Present, CXXXVII (1992),
48-71
Elliott, J. H., ‘Foreign policy and domestic crisis: Spain, 1598-1659,’ in Elliott, Spain and its
world, 114—41
Elliott, J. H., ‘Managing decline: Olivares and the grand strategy of Imperial Spain’, in
Kennedy, ed.. Grand strategies in war and peace, 87—104
Elliott, J. H., Spain and its world 1300-1 joo. Selected Essays (New Haven, 1989)
Emmanuelli, R., Genes et I’Espagne dans la Guerre de Corse, 1339—1369 (Paris 1964)
Estal, J. M. de, ‘Felipe II y su archivo hagiografico de El Escorial’, Hispania sacra, XXIII (1970),
193-333
Estebe, J., Tocsin pour un massacre: la saison de St Barthelemy (Paris, 1968)
Fagel, R., De Hispano-Vlaamse Wereld. De contacten tussen Spanjaarden en Nederlanders 1496—1333
(Brussels, 1996)
Farnham, B., ed.. Avoiding losses, taking risks: prospect theory and international conflict (Ann Arbor,
MI, 1994)
Faulconnier, H., Description historique de Dunkerque, I (Bruges, 1730)
Fea, P., Alessandro Farnese, duca di Parma. Narrazione storica e militare (Rome, 1886)
Fernandez Albaladejo, P., Fragmentos de monarquta. Trabajos de historia politica (Madrid,
1992)
B ibliography 419
Fernandez Albaladejo, P., ‘“De Regis Catholici Praestantia”'. una propuesta de “Rey Catolico”
desde el reino napolitano en 1611’, in Musi, ed., Nel sistema imperiale, 93-1 ii
Fernandez Albaladejo, P., “‘Rey Catolico”: gestacion y metamorfosis de un titulo’, in Ribot
Garcia, El Tratado de Tordesillas, 209—16
Fernandez Alvarez, M., Felipe 11 y su tiempo (Madrid, 1998)
Fernandez Alvarez, M., ‘Las instrucciones pollticas de los Austrias mayores. Problemas e
interpretaciones’, Gesammelte Aufsatze zur Kulturgeschichte Spaniens, XXIII (1967), 171-88
Fernandez Alvarez, M., Madrid bajo Felipe II (Madrid, 1966)
Fernandez Alvarez, M., Politica mundial de Carlos V y Felipe II (Madrid, 1966)
Fernandez Alvarez, M., Tres embajadores de Felipe II en Inglaterra (Madrid, 1951)
Fernandez Armesto, F., ‘Armada myths: the formative phase’, in Gallagher and Cruickshank,
God’s obvious design, 19—39
Fernandez Duro, C., De algunas obras desconocidas de cosmografta y de navegacion (Madrid,
1894-95)
Fernandez Duro, C., Armada espanola desde la union de los reinos de Castilla y Aragon, I (Madrid,
1895)
Fernandez Duro, C., La conquista de los Azores en 1383 (Madrid, 1886)
Fernandez Segado, F., ‘Alejandro Farnesio en las negociaciones de paz entre Espana y Inglaterra
(1586-88)’, Hispania, XLV (1985), 513-78
Feros, A., ‘Lerma y Olivares: la practica del valimiento en la primera mitad del seiscientos’, in
J. H. Elliott and A. Garcia Sanz, eds. La Espana del Conde Duque de Olivares (Valladolid, 1990),
195-224
Feros, A., ‘Twin souls: monarchs and favourites in early seventeenth-century Spain’, in Kagan
and Parker, Spain, Europe and the Atlantic world, 27—47
Feros, A., “‘Vicedioses, pero humanos”: el drama del rey’, Cuadernos de historia moderna, XIV
(1993), 103-31
Feros, A., ‘El viejo monarca y los nuevos favoritos: los discursos sobre la privanza en el reinado
deEeBpe IV, Studia historica, XNW {1998), 11-36
Ferrill, A., ‘The Grand Strategy of the Roman empire’, in Kennedy, Grand strategies in war and
peace, 71—85
Feuillerat, A., ed.. The prose works of Sir Philip Sidney, III (Cambridge, 1962)
Fichtner, P. S., ‘Dynastic marriage in sixteenth-century Habsburg diplomacy and statecraft: an
interdisciplinary approach’, American Historical Review, LXXXI (1976), 243-65
Fichtner, P. S., Ferdinand I (New York, 1982)
Firth, C. H., ‘Thurloe and the Post Office’, English Historical Review, XII (1898), 527-33
Fleischer, C., ‘The lawgiver as Messiah: the making of the imperial image in the reign of
Suleiman , in G. Veinstein, ed., Soliman le magniflque et son temps (Paris, 1992), 159—77
Flower-Smith, M. A., ‘ “The able and the willynge”: the preparations of the English land forces
to meet the Armada’, British Army Review, XCV (1990), 54—61
Forneron, H., Les dues de Guise et leur epoque, II (Paris, 1877)
Freitas de Meneses, A. de. Os Azores e 0 domtnio filipino (1380—1390) (2 vols, Angra do Heroismo,
1987)
Fruin, R., The siege and relief of Leiden in 1334 (The Hague, 1927)
Fukuyama, F. and A. N. Shulsky, The ‘virtual corporation’ and army organization (Washington,
D.C., 1997)
Gachard, L. P., Retraite et mort de Charles-Quint (2 vols, Brussels, 1855)
Gaddis, J. L., We now know. Rethinking Cold War history (Oxford, 1997)
Gallagher, P. and D. W. Cruickshank, ‘The Armada of 1588 reflected in serious and popular
literature of the period’, in Gallagher and Cruickshank, God’s obvious design, 167—83
Gallagher, P. and D. W. Cruickshank, eds, God’s obvious design. Papers of the Spanish Armada
symposium, Sligo, 1388 (London, 1990)
Garcia Hernan, E., La Armada espanola en la Monarquta de Felipe 11 y la defensa del Mediterraneo
(Madrid, 1995)
420 Bibliography
Garcia Hernan, E., ‘La curia romana, Felipe II y Sixto V’, Hispania sacra, XLVI (1994),
631-49
Garcia Hernan, E., ‘La iglesia de Santiago de los Espanoles en Roma: trayectoria de una
institucion’, Anthologica annua, XLII (1995), 297-363
Garcia Hernan, E., ‘Pio V y el mesianismo profetico’, Hispania sacra, XLV (1993), 83-102
Garcia Vilar, J. A., ‘El Maquiavelismo en las relaciones internacionales: la anexion de Portugal
a Espana en 1580’, Revista de estudios internacionales, II (1981), 599—643
Gardiner, C. H., ‘Prescott’s most indispensable aide: Pascual de Gayangos’, Hispanic-American
Historical Review, XXXIX (1959), 81—115
Gerson, A. J., ‘The English recusants and the Spanish Armada’, American Historical Review,
XXII (1917), 589-94
Geurts, P. A. M., De Nederlandse Opstand in de pamfletten, 1^66—1^84 (Nijmegen, 1956)
Gil, X., ‘Aragonese constitutionalism and Habsburg rule: the varying meanings of liberty’, in
Kagan and Parker, Spain, Europe and the Atlantic world, 160—87
Gil, X., ‘Vision europea de la monarquia espanola como monarquia compuesta’, in C. Russell
and J. Andres Gallego, eds. Las monarqutas del antiguo regimen, gMonarqmas compuestas?
(Madrid, 1996), 65—95.
Gilissen, J., ‘Les phases de la codification et de I’homologation des coutumes dans les
XVII provinces des Pays-Bas’, Tijdschrift voor Rechtsgeschiedenis, XVIII (1950), 36-67 and
239-90
Gilles de Pelichy, C., ‘Contribution a I’histoire des troubles politico-religieux des Pays-Bas’,
Annales de la Societe d’Emulation de Bruges, LXXXVI (1949), 90—144
Gillespie, R., ‘Destabilizing Ulster 1641-2,’ in B. MacCuarta, ed., Ulster 1641: aspects of the
(Belfast, 1993), 107-21
Ginzburg, C., ‘Due note sul profetismo cinquecentesco’, Rivista storica italiana, LXXVIII
(1966), 184-227
Glasgow, T., ‘Gorgas’ seafight’. Mariner’s Mirror, LIX (1973), 179—85
Glasgow, T., ‘The shape of the ships that defeated the Spanish Armada’, Mariner’s Mirror, L
(1964), 177-87
Glete, J., Navies and nations. Warships, navies and state-building in Europe and America, i ^00—1860
(2 vols, Stockholm, 1993)
Gomez-Centurion, C., La Invencible y la empresa de Inglaterra (Madrid, 1988)
Gomez-Centurion, C., ‘The new crusade: ideology and revolution in the Anglo-Spanish conflict
, in Rodriguez-Salgado and Adams, England, Spain and the Gran Armada, 264—99
Gonzalez de Amezua y Mayo, A., Isabella de Valois, reina de Espana, 1^46-68 (3 vols, Madrid,
1949)
Gonzalez de Leon, F., ‘The road to Rocroi: the duke of Alba, the count-duke of Olivares and the
high command of the Spanish Army of Flanders in the Eighty Years’ War, 1567-1659’
(Johns Hopkins Ph.D. thesis, 1991)
Gonzalez Garcia, P., Archivo general de Indias (Madrid, 1995)
Gonzalez Novalln, J. L., Historia de la Iglesia en Espana, vol. Ill part 2 (Madrid, 1980)
Goodman, D., Power and penury. Government, technology and science in Philip IPs Spain (Cambridge,
1988)
Goodman, D., Spanish naval power, i^8c>-i66y. Reconstruction and defeat (Cambridge, 1996)
Gordon, C., ed.. Power!knowledge. Selected interviews and other writings, 7972-7977, by Michel
Foucault (New York, 1980)
Gould, J. D., ‘The crisis of the export trade, 1586-87’, English Historical Review, LXXI (1956),
212-22
Gracia Rivas, M., La ‘invasion’ de Aragon en 7597. Una solucion militar a las alteraciones del reino
(Zaragoza, 1992)
Gracia Rivas, M., ‘El motin de la “Diana” y otras vicisitudes de las galeras participantes en la
jornada de Inglaterra’, Revista de historia naval, II. 4 (1984), 33-45
Gracia Rivas, M., Los tercios de la Gran Armada, i^8j—88 (Madrid, 1989)
Bibliography 421
Gray, R., ‘Spinola’s galleys in the Narrow Seas, 1599-1603’, Mariner’s Mirror, LXIV (1978),
71-83
Green, J. M., ‘“I my self”: Queen Elizabeth I’s oration at Tilbury Camp’, Sixteenth Century
Journal, XXVIII (1997), 421-45
Groenhuis, G., De predikanten: de sociale positie van de Gereformeerde predikanten in de Republiek der
Verenigde Nederlanden voor ijoo (Groningen, 1977)
Guilmartin, J. F., A very short war. The SS ‘Mayaguez’ and the battle ofKoh Tan (College Station,
TX, 1995)
Haffner, S., The meaning of Hitler (London, 1979)
Hall, D. D., Worlds of wonder, days of judgment. Popular religious belief in early New England (New
York, 1989)
Halperin, M. with P. Clapp and A. Kanter, Bureaucratic politics and foreign policy (Washington,
1974)
Hammer, P. E. J., ‘An Elizabethan spy who came in from the cold: the return of Anthony
Standen to England in 1593’, Historical Research, LXV (1992), 277-95
Hammer, P. E. J., ‘New light on the Cadiz expedition of 1596’, Historical Research, LXX (1997),
182-202
Handel, M. L, ‘Intelligence and the problem of strategic s\iry>nse,’ Journal of Strategic Studies, VII
(1984), 229-81
Handel, M. I., ‘The politics of intelligence’. Intelligence and National Security, II.4 (October
1987), 5-46
Handel, M. L, ‘Technological surprise in war’. Intelligence and National Security, II. i (1987), i-
53
Hanke, L., The Spanish struggle for justice in the conquest of America (Boston, MA, 1949)
Hanselmann, J.-L., L’alliance Hispano-Suisse de i^8j (Bellinzona, 1971)
Hardach, A., The First World War, 1^14—1918 (Berkeley, 1977)
Hart, G. ’t, ‘Rijnlands bestuur en waterstaat rondom het beleg en ontzet van Leiden’, Leids
Jaarboekje, LXVI (1974), 13-33
Haynes, A., Invisible power. The Elizabethan secret services, iy/o—i6oy (London,
Hays Park, W., ‘Linebacker and the law of war’. Air University Review, XXXIV.2 (January-
February 1983), 2-30
Hays Park, W., ‘Rolling Thunder and the law of war’. Air University Review, XXXIII.2
(January—February 1982), 2-23
Headley, J. M., ‘The Habsburg world empire and the revival of Ghibellinism’, in S. Wenzel,
ed.. Medieval and Renaissance Studies, VII (Chapel Hill, 1978),
Headley, J. M., ‘Rhetoric and reality: messianic humanism and civilian themes in the imperial
ethos of Gattinara’, in M. Reeves, ed.. Prophetic Rome in the High Renaissance period. Essays
(Oxford, 1992), 241-69
Headley, J. M., ‘Spain’s Asian presence 1565-90: structures and aspirations’, Hispanic-American
Historical Review, LXXV (1995), 623—46
Hergueta, N., ‘Notas diplomaticas de Felipe II acerca del canto-llano’. Revista de archives,
bibliotecas y museos, XIII (1904), 39-50
Hess, A., The forgotten frontier. A history of the sixteenth-century Ibero-African frontier {Chicdigo, 1978)
Hibben, C. C., Gouda in revolt: particularism and pacifism in the revolt of the Netherlands (Utrecht,
1983)
Hildebrand, K.., Johan III och Europas katolska makter, iy68—8o: studier i lyoo-talets politiska
historia (Uppsala, 1898)
Hildebrand, K., The Third Reich (London, 1984)
Holsti, O. R., Crisis, escalation, war (Montreal, 1972)
Holt, M. P., The duke of Anjou and the politique struggle during the wars of religion (Cambridge,
1986)
Hopf, T., Peripheral visions. Deterrence theory and American foreign policy in the third world, 196^—
90 (Ann Arbor, 1994)
422 Bibliography
Howard, M., The lessons of history (New Haven and London, 1991)
Hiibner, J., Sixte-Quint (2 vols, Paris, 1870)
Huerga, A., ‘La vida seudomistica y el proceso inquisitorial de Sor Marfa de la Visitacion (La
monja de Lisboa)’, Hispania sacra, XII (1959), 35—130
Humphreys, R. A., William Hickling Prescott: the man and the historian (London, 1959)
Ikle, F. C., Every war must end (revised edn. New York, 1991)
Imber, C., Studies in Ottoman history and law (Istanbul, 1996: Analecta Isisiana, XX)
Imhoff, A., Der Friede von Vervins 1^98 (Aarau, 1966)
Immerman, R. H., ‘The history of United States foreign policy: a plea for pluralism’. Diplomatic
Flistory, XIV (1990), 574-83
Israel, J. L, ed.. The Anglo-Dutch moment. Essays on the Glorious Revolution and its world impact
(Cambridge, 1991)
Israel, J. L, The Dutch Republic and the Hispanic world, 1606—1661 (Oxford, 1982)
Israel, J. L, The Dutch Republic. Its rise, greatness, and fall i4yj—i8o6 (Oxford, 1995)
Israel, J. L, Empires and entrepots. The Dutch, the Spanish Monarchy, and the Jews, iy8y-ijiy
(London, 1990)
Israel, J. L, ‘Olivares, the Cardinal-Infante and Spain’s strategy in the Low Countries
(i635~43)- the road to Rocroi’, in Kagan and Parker, Spain, Europe and the Atlantic world,
267-95
Israel, J. I. and G. Parker, ‘Of Providence and Protestant winds: the Spanish Armada of 1588
and the Dutch Armada of 1688 , in Israel, The Anglo-Dutch moment, 335—63
Jablonsky, B., The owl of Minerva flies at twilight: doctrinal change and continuity in the revolution in
military affairs (Carlisle, PA, 1994)
Jago, C. J., ‘Taxation and political culture in Castile 1590-1640’, in Kagan and Parker, Spain,
Europe and the Atlantic world, 48—72
Janssens, Q., Brabant in het verweer. Loyale oppositie tegen Spanje’s bewindin de Nederlanden, van Alva
tot Farnese, iy6-j--j8 (Kortrijk, 1989: Standen en Landen, XXXIX)
Janssens, G., ‘Juan de la Cerda, hertog van Medina Celi’, Spiegel Historiael, IX (1974), 222-7
Jarausch, K. H., The enigmatic chancellor: Bethmann Hollweg and the hubris of imperial Germany
(New Haven and London, 1973)
Jardine, L. and A. Grafton, Studied for action”: how Gabriel Harvey read his Livy’, Past and
Present, CXXIX (1990), 30—78
Jedin, H., Chiesa della storia (Brescia, 1972), 703—22
Jenkins, M., The state portrait. Its origins and evolution (New York, 1947)
Jensen, J. de Lamar, Diplomacy and dogmatism. Bernardino de Mendoza and the French Catholic
League (Cambridge, MA, 1964)
Jensen, J. de Lamar, ‘Franco-Spanish diplomacy and the Armada’, in C. H. Carter, ed.. From the
Renaissance to the Counter-Reformation: essays in honor of Garret Mattingly (London, 1965),
205-29
Jensen, J. de Lamar, ‘The phantom will of Mary queen of Scots’, Scotia, IV (1980), 1-15
Jensen, J. de Lamar, The Spanish Armada: the worst-kept secret in Europe’, Sixteenth-century
Journal, XIX (1988), 621-41
Jervis, R., Perception and misperception in international politics (Princeton, 1976)
Johnson, F. R., Thomas Hood s inaugural lecture as mathematical lecturer of the city of
London, , Journal of the History of Ideas, III (1942), 94—106
Johnson, R. T., Managing the White House. An intimate study of the presidency (New York, 1974)
Jouanna, A., Le Devoir de revolte. La noblesse frangaise et la gestation de 1’f.tat modeme (7559-166/)
(Paris, 1989)
Juste, T., Guillaume le Taciturne d’apres sa correspondance et ses papiers d’ttat (Brussels, 1873)
Juste, T., Les Valois et les Nassau (iyj2—iyj4) (Brussels, n. d.)
Kagan, R. L., ‘Felipe II: el hombre y la imagen’, in, Felipe 11 y el arte de su tiempo (Madrid, 1998),
457-73-
Kagan, R. L., Lucrecias dreams. Politics and prophecy in sixteenth century Spain (Berkeley, 1990)
Bibliography 423
Kagan, R. L., ‘Politics, prophecy and the Inquisition in late sixteenth-century Spain,’ in M. E.
Perry and A. J. Cruz, eds. Cultural encounters: the impact of the Inquisition in Spain and the New
(Berkeley, 1991), 105-24
Kagan, R. L., ‘Prescott’s paradigm: American historical scholarship and the decline of Spain’,
American Historical Review, Cl (1996), 423-46
Kagan, R. L., Spanish cities of the Golden Age. The views of Anton van den Wyngaerde (Berkeley,
1989)
Kagan, R. L., Students and society in early modern Spain (Baltimore, 1974)
Kagan, R. L. and G. Parker, eds, Spain, Europe and the Atlantic world. Essays in honour of John H.
Elliott (Cambridge, 1995)
Kaiser, D. E., Politics and war. Sources and consequences of European international conflict, 1359-1943
(Cambridge, MA, 1990)
Kamen, H., Philip of Spain (New Haven and London, 1997)
Kennedy, P. M., ed.. Grand strategies in war and peace (New Haven and London, 1991)
Kennedy, P. M., The rise andfall of the Great Powers: economic change and military conflict from 1300
to 2000 (New York, 1987)
Kenyon, J. R., ‘Ordnance and the king’s fleet in 1548’, International Journal of Nautical
Archaeology, XII (1983), 63-5
Kern, S., The culture of time and space, 1880—1918 (Cambridge, MA, 1983)
Kernkamp, J. W., De handel op den vijand 13J2-1609 (2 vols, Utrecht, 1931)
Kershaw, L, The Nazi dictatorship: problems and perspectives of interpretation (3rd edn, London,
1993)
Koenigsberger, H. G., Politicians and virtuosi. Essays in early modern history (London, 1986)
Koenigsberger, H. G., The practice of empire (Ithaca, NY, 1969)
Kohler, A., Das Reich im Kampf um die Hegemonie in Europa 1321—1648 (Munich, 1990:
Enzyklopaedie deutscher Geschichte, VI)
Kortepeter, C. M., Ottoman imperialism during the Reformation: Europe and the Caucasus (New York,
1992)
Kouri, E. L, England and the attempts to form a Protestant alliance in the later 1360s: a case study in
European diplomacy (Helsinki, 1981: Annales Academiae Scientiarum Fennicae, series B CCX)
Kretzschmar, J., Die Invasionsprojekte der katholischen Machte gegen England zur Zeits Elisabeths
(Leipzig, 1892)
Lademacher, H., Die Stellung des Prinzen von Oranien als Statthalter in der Niederlanden von 1332
bis 1384. Ein Verfassungsgeschichte der Niederlande (Bonn, 1958)
Lagomarsino, P. D., Court factions and the formation of Spanish policy towards the Netherlands
1559-1567’ (Cambridge University Ph.D. thesis, 1973)
Lamb, U. S., ‘The Spanish cosmographic juntas of the sixteenth century’, Terrae incognitae, VI
(1974), 56-62
Lanzinner, M., Friedenssicherung undpolitische Einheit des Reiches unter Kaiser Maximilian 11 (1364-
j6) (Gottingen, 1993)
Lapeyre, H., Las etapas de la politica exterior de Felipe 11 (Valladolid, 1973)
Lapeyre, H., Une Famille de marchands: les Ruiz (Paris, 1955)
Las Heras, J. de, Indultos concedidos por la camara de Castilla en tiempos de los Austrias’,
Studia historica, I (1983), 115—41
Lea, K. M., ‘Sir Anthony Standen and some Anglo-Italian letters’, English Historical Review,
XLVII (1932), 461-77
Lebow, R. N., Between peace and war. The nature of international crisis (Baltimore, 1981)
Lebow, R. N. and J. G. Stein, We all lost the Cold War (Princeton, 1994)
Lefevre, J., Le Tribunal de la Visite (1594—1602)’, Archives, bibliotheques et musees de la Belgique,
IX (1932), 65-85
Leimon, M. and G. Parker, ‘Treason and plot in Elizabethan England: the fame of Sir Edward
Stafford reconsidered’, English Historical Review, CVI (1996), 1134-58
Levin, D., History as Romantic art: Bancroft, Prescott, Motley and Parkman (Stanford, 1959)
424 Bibliography
Levin, M. J., ‘A Spanish eye on Italy. Spanish ambassadors in the sixteenth century’ (Yale
University Ph.D. thesis, 1997)
Levine, P. J., The amateur and the professional. Antiquarians, historians and archaeologists in Victorian
England, 1838—1886 (Cambridge, 1986)
Levy, J. S., ‘Loss aversion, framing, and bargaining: the implications of prospect theory for
international conflict’. International Political Science Review, XVII (1996), 179—95
Lison Tolosana, C., La imagen del rey. Monarquta, realeza y poder ritual en la casa de los Austrias
(Madrid, 1991)
Loades, D. M., The Tudor navy. An administrative, political and military history (London, 1992)
Loomie, A. J., The Spanish Elizabethans. The English exiles at the court of Philip II (New York,
1963)
Lopez de Toro, J., Los poetas de Lepanto (Madrid, 1950)
Lopez Pinero, J. M., Ciencias y tecnica en la sociedadespanola de los siglos XVIy XVII (Madrid, 1979)
Lorenzo Sanz, E., Comercio de Espana con America en la epoca de Felipe II (2 vols, Valladolid, 1979—
80)
Losada, A., Juan Gines de Sepulveda a traves de su ‘Epistolario’ y nuevos documentos (2nd edn, Madrid,
1973)
Lossky, A., Louis XIV and the French Monarchy (New Brunswick, 1994)
Lovett, A. W., ‘The Castilian bankruptcy of The Historical Journal, XXIII (1980), 899-
911
Lovett, A. W., ‘The General Settlement of 1577: an aspect of Spanish finance in the early
modern period’. The Historical Journal, XXV (1982), 1—22
Lovett, A. W., ‘The Golden Age of Spain. New work on an old theme’. The Historical Journal,
XXIV (1981), 739-49
Lovett, A. W., ‘Juan de Ovando and the council of Finance, 1573-5’, The HistoricalJournal, XV
(1972), I-2I
Lovett, A. W., ‘A new governor for the Netherlands: the appointment of Don Luis de
Requesens’, European Studies Review, I (1971), 89—103
Lovett, A. W., Philip II and Mateo Vazquez de Leca: the government of Habsburg Spain iy/2—iyc)2
(Geneva, 1977)
Lovett, A. W., ‘The vote of the Millones (1590)’, The Historical Journal, XXX (1987), 1-20
Lunitz, M., Diplomatic und Diplomaten im 16. Jahrhundert. Studien zu den standigen Gesandten
Kaiser Karls V. in Frankreich (Constance, 1988)
Luttenberger, A. P., KurfUrsten, Kaiser und Reich. Politische Eiihrung und Friedenssicherung unter
Ferdinand I und Maximilian II (Mainz, 1994)
Luttwak, E. N., The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire from the first century to the third (Baltimore,
1976)
Luttwak, E. N., Strategy. The logic of war and peace (Cambridge, MA, 1987)
Lutz, H., Christianitas Afflicta. Europa, das Reich, und die pdpstliche Politik im Niedergang der
Hegemonie Kaiser Karls V 1332—1336 (Gottingen, 1964)
Lutz, H. and E. Miiller-Luckner, eds. Das romisch-deutsche Reich im politischen System Karls V
(Munich, 1982: Schriften des historischen Kollegs, Kolloquien, I)
Lyell, J. P. R., ‘A commentary on certain aspects of the Spanish Armada drawn from
contemporary sources’ (Oxford B.Litt. thesis, 1932; Houghton Library, Harvard, fMs Eng.
714)
Lynch, J., ‘Philip II and the Papacy’, Transactions of the Royal Historical Society, 4th series XI
(1961), 23-42
Lynch, M., ed., Mary Stewart: queen in three kingdoms (Oxford, 1988)
Lyon, E., The enterprise of Florida. Pedro Menendez de Aviles and the Spanish conquest of 1363—1368
(Gainesville, 1976)
MacCaffrey, W. T., Queen Elizabeth and the making of policy 13J2—1388 (Princeton, 1981)
MacCaffrey, W. T., The shaping of the Elizabethan regime. Elizabethan politics, I338—I3J2
(Princeton, 1968)
Bibliography 425
MacKay, R. F., ‘To obey and comply: the limits of royal authority in seventeenth-century
Castile’ (University of California at Berkeley Ph.D. thesis, 1995)
Malo, H., Les Corsaires. Les corsaires dunkerquois et Jean Bart, I (Paris, 1913)
Maltby, W. S., Alba. A biography of Fernando Alvarez de Toledo, third duke of Alba, i3oy-82
(Berkeley, 1982)
March, J. M., El Comendador Mayor de Castilla, Don Luis de Requesens, en el gobierno de Milan
(13-] 1-3) (2nd edn, Madrid, 1946)
Martin, A. L., Henry III and the Jesuit politicians (Geneva, 1973)
Martin, C. J. M., ‘The equipment and fighting potential of the Spanish Armada’ (St Andrews
University Ph.D. thesis, 1983)
Martin, C. J. M. and G. Parker, The Spanish Armada (London, 1988)
Martin, H., Histoire de France, IX (Paris, 1857)
Martin, P., Spanish Armada prisoners. The story of the ‘Nuestra Senora del Rosario’ and her crew, and
of other prisoners in England 138J-9J (Exeter, 1988: Exeter Maritime Studies, i)
Martinez Millan, J. ed.. La corte de Felipe II (Madrid, 1994)
Martinez Millan, J., ‘Un curioso manuscrito: el libro de gobierno del Cardenal Diego de
Espinosa (1512?-I572)’, Hispania, LIII (1993), 299-344
Mattingly, G., The defeat of the Spanish Armada (Harmondsworth, 1962)
Mattingly, G., ‘William Allen and Catholic propaganda in England’, Travaux d’humanisme et
renaissance, XXVIII (1957), 325-39
McGiffert, M., ‘God’s controversy with Jacobean England’, American Historical Review,
LXXXVIII (1983), 1151-74
McGurk, J. J. N., ‘Armada preparations in Kent and arrangements made after the defeat (1587-
9)’, Archaeologia Cantiana, LXXXV (1970), 71-93
McKenna, J. W., ‘How God became an Englishman’, in D. J. Guth and J. W. McKenna, eds,
Tudor rule and revolution (Cambridge, 1982), 25—43
McNamara, R. with B. VanDeMark, In retrospect. The tragedy and lessons of Vietnam (revised edn.
New York, 1996)
Merriman, M. H., ‘Mary, queen of France’, in M. Lynch, ed., Mary Stewart: queen in three
kingdoms (Oxford, 1988), 53—70
Merritt, J., ‘Power and communication: Thomas Wentworth and government at a distance
during the Personal Rule, 1629-1635’, in Merritt, ed.. The political world of Thomas
Wentworth earl of Strafford, 1621—1641 (Cambridge, 1996), 109—32
Messiaen, J., La Connaissance des bancs de Dunkerque du lye siecle jusqu’d nos jours (Dunkirk,
1976)
Meyer, A. O., England and the Catholic church under Queen Elizabeth (London, 1916)
Mignet, F. A. M., Antonio Perez et Philippe II (Paris, 1845)
Milhou, A., Colon y su mentalidadmesidnica en elambiente franciscanista Espanol (Valladolid, 1983:
Cuadernos Colombinos, XI)
Millar, F., The emperor and the Roman world, 31 bc—ad 33J (London, 1977)
Miranda, J., Espana y Nueva Espana en la epoca de Felipe II (Mexico, 1962)
Molyneux, T. M., Conjunct expeditions, or expeditions that have been carried on jointly by the fleet and
army (London, 1759)
Moran Torres, E., ‘Los esplas de la Invencible’, Historia-16, CLII (1988), 31—7
Morgan, H., Tyrone’s rebellion. The outbreak of the Nine Years War in Tudor Ireland (London, 1993)
Morrill, J. S., Oliver Cromwell and the English Revolution (London, 1990)
Motley, J. L., The rise of the Dutch Republic (Boston, 1856)
Mousset, A., Hn Resident de France en Espagne au temps de la Ligue (1383—1390). Pierre de Segusson
(Paris, 1908)
Mulcahy, R., The decoration of the royal basilica of El Escorial (Cambridge, 1994)
Mulcahy, R., ‘Two murders, a crucifix and the Grand Duke’s Serene Highness: Francesco I de
Medici’s gift of Cellini’s “Crucified Christ’’ to Philip IE, in J. M. de Bernardo Ares, ed., /
Conferencia Internacional ‘Hacia un nuevo humanismo’, II (Cordoba, 1997), 149—75
426 Bibliography
Munby, A. N. L., Phillipps studies, V (Cambridge, i960)
Mundy, B. E., The mapping of New Spain. Indigenous cartography and the maps of the ‘Relaciones
Geogrdfcas’ (Chicago, 1996)
Muro, G., ha vida de la princesa de Eholi (Madrid, 1877)
Murray, W. A., A. Bernstein and M. Knox, eds. The making of strategy. Rulers, states and war
(Cambridge, 1994)
Musi, A., ed., Nel sistema imperiale: ITtalia spagnola (Naples, 1994)
Muto, G., ‘Modelli di organizzazione finanziaria nell’esperienza degli stati italiani della prima
eta moderna’, Annali dell’ istituto storico italo-germanico, XXXIX (1995), 287—302
Neal, L., ed., War finance. III (Aldershot, 1994)
Neustadt, R., Presidential power and the modern presidents. The politics of leadership from Roosevelt to
Reagan (2nd edn. New York, 1990)
Niccoli, O., Prophecy and people in Renaissance Italy (Princeton, 1990)
Nightingale, F., Letters from Egypt: a journey on the Nile, 1849-yo (ed. A. Sattin, New York,
1987)
Noble, W. M., Huntingdonshire and the Spanish Armada (London, 1896)
Nolan, J. S., ‘The muster of 1588’, Albion, XXIII (1991), 387-407
O’Donnell y Duque de Estrada, H., ‘El secreto, requfsito para la Empresa de Inglaterra de
1588’, Revista de historia naval, II.7 (1984), 63—74
O Donnell y Duque de Estrada, H., ha fuerza de desembarco de la Gran Armada contra Inglaterra
(1^88) (Madrid, 1989)
Ohlmeyer, J. H., ‘Ireland independent: confederate foreign policy and international relations
during the mid-seventeenth century’, in Ohlmeyer, ed., Ireland from independence to occupation,
1641—1660 (Cambridge, 1995), 89—111
Ohlmeyer, J. H., Civil war and Restoration in the three kingdoms. The career of Randal McDonnell
marquis of Antrim, 160^—8y (Cambridge, 1993)
Oliveira e Costa, J. L. and V. L. Gaspar Rodrigues, Portugal y Oriente: elproyecto indiano del Rey
Juan (Madrid, 1992)
Oliveros de Castro, M. T. and R. Subiza Martin, Felipe II: estudio medico-historico (Madrid, 1956)
Olivieri, A., ‘II significato escatologico di Lepanto nella storia religiosa del mediterraneo del
500 , in G. Benzoni, ed., II Mediterraneo nella seconda metd del ’300 alia luce di hepanto
(Florence, 1974: Civilta veneziani, studi XXX), 257-77
O’Neil, B. H. S., Castles and cannon: a study of early artillery fortification in England {Oshord, i960)
O’Neil, B. H. S., ‘The fortification of Weybourne Hope in 1588’, Norfolk Archaeology, XXVII
(1940), 250-62
Oosterhoff, F. G., Leicester and the Netherlands iy86—8j (Utrecht, 1988)
Oppenheim, M., A history of the administration of the Royal Navy 1^09-1660 (London, 1896)
O’Rahilly, A., The massacre at Smerwick (iy8o) (Cork, 1928)
Orso, S. N., Philip IV and the decoration of the Alcazar of Madrid (Princeton, 1985)
Ozment, S., Protestants: the birth of a revolution (New York, 1992)
Pagden, A. R., Lords of all the world. Ideologies of empire in Spain, Britain and Prance, c. 1^00—
c. 1800 (New Haven and London, 1995)
Pagden, A. R., Spanish imperialism and the political imagination. Studies in European and Spanish-
American social and political theory, iyiy-1830 (New Haven and London, 1990)
Pape, R. A., ‘Coercive air power in the Vietnam War’, International Security, XV.2 (Fall, 1990),
103-46
Parente, G. et al., Los sucesos de Flandes de iy88 en relation con la empresa de Inglaterra (Madrid
1988)
Parker, G., The Army of Flanders and the Spanish Road 136-3-1639. The logistics of Spanish victory
and defeat in the Low Countries’ Wars (revised edn, Cambridge, 1990)
Parker, G., ‘David or Goliath.^ Philip II and his world in the 1580s’, in Kagan and Parker,
Spain, Europe and the Atlantic world, 245—66
Bibliography ^^27
Parker, G., ‘The Dreadnought revolution of Tudor England’, Mariner’s Mirror, LXXXII (1996),
269-300
Parker, G., The Dutch Revolt (revised edn, Harmondsworth, 1985)
Parker, G., Guide to the archives of the Spanish institutions in or concerned with the Netherlands, 1336-
1J06 (Brussels, 1971)
Parker, G., ‘The laws of war in early modern Europe’, in M. Howard, G. Andreopoulos and M.
Shulman, eds. The laws of war. Constraints on warfare in the western world (New Haven and
London, 1994), 40-58
Parker, G., ‘Maps and ministers: the Spanish Habsburgs’, in D. Buisseret, ed., Monarchs,
ministers and maps: the emergence of cartography as a tool of government in early modern Europe
(Chicago, 1992), 124-52
Parker, G., The Military Revolution. Military innovation and the rise of the West 1300—1800 (2nd.
edn, Cambridge, 1996)
Parker, G., Philip II (3rd edn, Chicago, 1995)
Parker, G., Spain and the Netherlands, 1339—1639. Ten studies (revised edn, London, 1990)
Parker, G., ‘El testamento politico de Juan Martinez de Recalde’, Revista de historia naval, XVI.i
(1998), 7-44
Parry, J. H., The Spanish theory of empire in the sixteenth century (Cambridge, 1940)
Partner, P., Papal financial policy in the Renaissance and Counter-Reformation’, Past and
Present, LXXXVIII (1980), 17-62
Patterson, A. T., The other Armada: the Franco-Spanish attempt to invade Britain in 1339
(Manchester, i960)
Pears, E. A., ‘The Spanish Armada and the Ottoman Porte’, English Historical Review, VII
(1893), 439-66
Pena Camara, J. de la, Nuevos datos sobre la visita de Juan de Ovando al consejo de Indias, 1363—68
(Madrid, 1935)
Perena Vicente, L., Teorta de la guerra en Francisco Suarez, I (Madrid, 1954)
Perez Minguez, F., ed., Reivindicacion historica del siglo XVI (Madrid, 1928)
Persico, J. E., Nuremberg: infamy on trial (Harmondsworth, 1994)
Peytavin, M., La Visite comme moyen de gouvernement dans la Monarchie Espagnole. Le cas des visites
generales du Royaume de Naples, XVIe—XVIIe siecles (Paris, 1997)
Phelan, J. L., The hispanization of the Philippines. Spanish aims and Filipino responses, 1363—1300
(Madison, 1967)
Phelan, J. L., The kingdom of Quito in the seventeenth century. Bureaucratic politics in the Spanish empire
(Madison, 1967)
Phelan, J. L., The millenarial kingdom of the Franciscans in the New World. A study of the writings
ofGeronimo de Mendieta (1323-1604) (Berkeley, 1956)
Philippson, M., Ein Ministerium unter Philipp II. Kardinal Granvella am spanische Hofe 1339—86
(Berlin, 1895)
Pi Corrales, M., Espana y laspotencias nordicas. ‘La otra invencible’ 1334 (Madrid, 1983)
Pi Corrales, M., Felipe II y la lucha por el dominio del mar (Madrid, 1989)
Pierson, P. O., Commander of the Armada. The seventh duke of Medina Sidonia (New Haven, 1989)
Pmcus, S., ‘Popery, trade and universal monarchy’, English Historical Review, CVII (1992), 1-29
Pipes, R., ed.. The unknown Lenin: from the secret archive (New Haven and London, 1996)
Pissavino, P. and G. Signorotto, eds, Lombardia borromnica, Lombardia spagnola, 1334—1639
(Milan, 1995)
Plaisant, M. J., Aspetti eproblemi dipolitica spagnola (1336-1619) (Padua, 1973)
Pollitt, R., Arming the nation, 1369—1386 (Navy Records Society, forthcoming)
Pollitt, R., Bureaucracy and the Armada: the administrator’s battle’. Mariner’s Mirror, LX
(1974), 119-32
Pollitt, R., ‘Contingency planning and the defeat of the Spanish Armada’, American Neptune,
XLV (1984), 25-34
428 Bibliography
Potter, D. M., ‘Jefferson Davis and the political factors in Confederate defeat’, in D. Donald,
ed.. Why the North won the civil war (Baton Rouge, i960), 91—114
Potter, L., Secret rites and secret xvriting. Royalist literature 1641-1660 (Cambridge, 1989)
Prescott, W. H., History of Philip the Second, king of Spain (3 vols, London, 1855-9)
Preto, P., / servizi segreti di Venezia (Milan, 1994)
Quirino, C., Philippine cartography (2nd edn, ed. R. A. Skelton, Amsterdam, 1964)
Ramos, D., ‘La crisis indiana y la Junta Magna de 1568’, Jahrbuch fiir Geschichte
von . . . Lateinamerikas, XXIII (1986), 1-61
Ramsay, G. D., The City of London in international politics at the accession of Elizabeth Tudor
(Manchester, 1975)
Ramsay, G. D., The queen’s merchants and the revolt of the Netherlands (London, 1986)
Rassow, P., Die Kaiser-ldee Karls V dargestellt an der Politik der Jahre 1^28—1^40 (Berlin, 1932)
Rawlinson, H. G., ‘The embassy of William Harborne to Constantinople, 1583-88’, Transactions
of the Royal Historical Society, 4th series V (1922), 1—27
Read, C., Mr Secretary Walsingham and the policy of Queen Elizabeth (3 vols, Oxford, 1925)
Read, C., ‘Queen Elizabeth’s seizure of the duke of Alva’s pay-ships,’of Modern History,
V (1933), 443-64
Redworth, G., ‘Felipe II y las soberanas de Inglaterra’, Torre de los Lujanes, XXXIII (1997),
103-12
Reinhardt, V., Uberleben in der fruhneuzeitlichen Stadt. Annona und Getreideversorgung in Rom
iy6y-iy^j (Tubingen, 1991)
Repgen, K., Die romische Kurie und der westfdlische Friede. I. Papst, Kaiser und Reich, 1^21-1644
(Tubingen, 1962)
Riano Lozano, F., Los medios navales de Alejandro Farnesio (iy8j—iy88) (Madrid, 1989)
Riba y Garcia, C., El consejo supremo de Aragon en el reinado de Felipe II (Valencia, 1914)
Ribot Garcia, L. A., ‘Milan, plaza de armas de la Monarquia’, Investigaciones historicas, X (1990),
205-38
Ribot Garcia, L. A., ‘Las provincias italianas y la defensa de la Monarquia’, Manuscrits, XIII
(1995X 97-122
Ribot Garcia, L. A., ed., El Tratado de Tordesillas y su epoca (3 vols, Valladolid, 1995)
Riley, C. D. G., ‘The State of Milan in the reign of Philip II of Spain’ (Oxford University D.
Phil, thesis, 1977)
Rill, G., ‘Reichsvikar und Kommissar. Zur Geschichte der Verwaltung Reichsitalien im
Spatmittelalter und in der friihen Neuzeit’, Annali della Fondazione Italiana per la Storia
Amministrativa, II (1965), 173-98
Ritter, R., La Soeur d’Henri IV. Catherine de Bourbon iyy^—1604 (2 vols, Paris, 1985)
Rivero Rodriguez, M., ‘Felipe II y los “potentados de Italia”, Bulletin de I’lnstitut Beige de Rome,
LXIII (1993), 337-70.
Rivero Rodriguez, M., ‘El servicio a dos cortes; Marco Antonio Colonna’, in Martinez Millan,
La corte de Felipe II, 305-78
Rivers, E. L., ed., Poesta Itrica del Siglo de Oro (Madrid, 1983)
Rizzo, M., Centro spagnolo e periferia lombarda nell’impero asburgico tra 500 e 600’, Rivista
storica italiana, CIV (1992), 315—48
Rizzo, M., ‘Competizione politico-militare, geopolitica e mobilitazione delle risorse
nell’Europa cinquecentesca. Lo Stato di Milano nell’eta di Filippo IF, in La Lombarda
spagnola. Nuovi indirizzi di ricerca (forthcoming)
Rizzo, M., ‘Finanza pubblica, impero e amministrazione nella Lombardia spagnola: le “visitas
generales , in P. Pissavino and G. Signorotto, eds, Lombardia borromaica, Lombardia spagnola,
303-61
Rizzo, M., ‘Poteri, interessi e conflitti geopolitici nei territori della Lunigiana durante I’eta di
Filippo IF, in Studi lunigianesi in onore di Cesare Vasoli (forthcoming)
Rocca, F. X., Court and cloister: Philip II and the EscoriaF (Yale University Ph.D. thesis,
1998)
Bibliography 429
Rodger, N. A. M., The safeguard of the sea. A naval history of Britain, I (London, 1997)
Rodriguez de Diego, J. L. and F. J. Alvarez Pinedo, Los Archivos de Simancas (Madrid, 1993)
Rodriguez-Salgado, M. J., ‘The Anglo-Spanish war: the final episode in the ‘‘Wars of the
Roses ? , in Rodriguez-Salgado and Adams, England, Spain and the Gran Armada, 1—44
Rodriguez-Salgado, M. J., ed.. Armada 1^88-1988 (London, 1988)
Rodriguez-Salgado, M.J., The changing face of empire. Charles V, Philip II and Habsburg authority,
^331-1539 (Cambridge, 1988)
Rodriguez-Salgado, M. J., The Court of Philip II of Spain’, in Asch and Birke, Princes, patronage
and the nobility, 205—44
Rodriguez-Salgado, M. J. and S. Adams, eds, ‘The count of Feria’s dispatch to Philip II of 14
November 1558’, Camden Miscellany, XXVIII (1984), 302-44
Rodriguez-Salgado, M. J. and S. Adams, eds, England, Spain and the Gran Armada 1^8^—1604.
Essays from the Anglo-Spanish conferences, London and Madrid, 1988 (Edinburgh, 1991)
Romani, M. A., Finanza pubblica e potere politico: il caso dei Farnese (1545—93)’, in Romani,
ed., Le corti farnesiane di Parma e Piacenza, I (Rome, 1978), 3-89, at pp. 27 and 38
Romano, R., ‘La pace di Cateau-Cambresis e Fequilibrio europeo a meta del secolo XVF, Rivista
storica italiana, LXI (1949), 526—50
Romero Garda, E., El imperialismo hispdnico en la Toscana durante el siglo XVI (Lerida, 1986)
Rose, J. H., Was the failure of the Spanish Armada due to storms?’. Proceedings of the British
Academy, XXII (1936), 207-44
Roth, R., Is history a process? Nonlinearity, revitalization theory and the central metaphor of
social science history’. Social Science History, XVI (1992), 197—243
Rowen, H. H., The Low Countries in early modern times (New York, 1972)
Ruiz Martin, F., ‘El pan de los paises balticos durante las guerras de religion: andanzas y
gestiones del historiador Pedro Cornejo’, Hispania, XXI (1961), 549-79
Russell, J. G., Peacemaking in the Renaissance (London, 1986)
Sacchi, D., Mappe dal nuovo mondo: cartografie locali e definizione della Nuova Spagna (secoli XVIXVII)
(Turin, 1977)
Sanchez, M. S., Empress Maria and the making of policy in the early years of Philip Ill’s reign’,
in A. Saint-Saens, ed.. Religion, body and gender in early modern Spain (San Francisco, 1991),
139-47
Sanchez Bella, L, La organizacion financiera de las Indias (siglo XVI) (Seville, 1968)
Sanchez Montes, J., Franceses, protestantes, turcos. Los espanoles ante lapolitica internacional de Carlos
V (2nd edn, Granada, 1995)
Schafer, E., El consejo real y supremo de las Indias. Su historia, organizacion y labor administrativa
hasta la terminacion de la Casa de Austria (2 vols, Seville, 1935—47)
Schelling, T., Arms and influence (New Haven, 1966)
Schilder, G., ‘A Dutch manuscript rutter: a unique portrait of the European coasts in the late
sixteenth century’. Imago mundi, XLIII (1991), 59-71
Schdffer, L, ed., Alkmaar ontzet, 1373-1973 (Alkmaar, 1973)
Schokkenbroek, J. C. S. A., “‘Wherefore serveth Justinus with his shipping of Zeeland?”
The Dutch and the Spanish Armada’, in Gallagher and Cruickshank, God’s obvious design,
lOI-II
Scholten, F. . J., Militaire topografische kaarten en stadsplattegronden van Nederland, 1379—1793
(Alphen-aan-de-Rijn, 1989)
Segre, R., Gli ebrei lombardi nell’eta spagnola: storia di un’espulsione (Turin, 1973)
Setton, K. M., The Papacy and the Levant, 1204-1371, IV (Philadelphia, 1984)
Sharpe, K. M., The personal rule of Charles I (New Haven and London, 1992)
Skilhter, S. A., ‘The Hispano-Ottoman armistice of 1581’, in C. E. Bosworth, ed., Iran and
Islam (Edinburgh, 1971), 491-515
Skilliter, S. A., William Harborne and the trade with Turkey (London, 1977)
Slavin, A. J., Daniel Rogers in Copenhagen, 1588. Mission and memory’, in Thorp and Slavin,
Politics, religion and diplomacy, 245—66
43° Bibliography
Slicher van Bath, B. H., Een Fries landbouwbedrijf in de tweede helft van de i6 eeuw (Wageningen,
1958)
Smith, A. G. R., ‘The secretariats of the Cecils, circa 1580-1612’, English Historical Review,
LXXXIII (1983), 481—504
Snapper, F., Oorlogsinvloeden op de overzeese handel van Holland 1557-1779 (Amsterdam, 1959)
Soons, A., Juan de Mariana (Boston, 1982)
Sorensen, T. C., Decision-making in the White House: the olive branch or the arrows (New York,
1963)
Spaans, J. W., Haarlem na de Reformatie. Stedelijke cultuur en kerkelijk leven (The Hague, 1989:
Hollandse historische reeks, XI)
Sproxton, J., Violence and religion. Attitudes towards militancy in the French civil wars and the English
Revolution (London, 1995)
Stern, V., Sir Stephen Powle of court and country (London, 1992)
Stone, L., An Elizabethan: Sir Horatio Palavicino (Oxford, 1956)
Storrs, C. ‘The Army of Lombardy and the resilience of Spanish power in Italy in the reign of
^Carlos II (1665-1700)’, War in History, IV (1997), 371-97, and V (1998), 1-22.
Stradling, R. A., The Armada of Flanders. Spanish maritime policy and European war iy68-i668
(Cambridge, 1992)
Strasser, G., ‘Diplomatic cryptology and universal languages in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries , in K. Neilson and B. McKercher, eds. Go spy the land. Military intelligence in history
(Westport, CT, 1992), 73-97
Suarez Fernandez, L., ‘La situacion internacional en torno a 1492’, in Ribot Garcia, El Tratado
de Tordesillas, II, 793—800
Sutherland, N. M., The massacre of St Bartholomew and the European conflict (London,
1973)
Sutherland, N. M., ‘The origins of the Thirty Years War and the structure of European politics’,
English Historical Review, CVII (1992), 587—625
Sutherland, N. M., ‘William of Orange and the revolt of the Netherlands: a missing dimension’,
Archiv fur Reformationsgeschichte, LXXIV (1983), 201-31
Tanner, M., The last descendant of Aeneas. The Hapsburgs and the mythic image of the Emperor (New
Haven and London, 1993)
Tazon, J. E., ‘The menace of the wanderer: Thomas Stukeley and the Anglo-Spanish conflict
in Ireland’ (paper given at the Center for Renaissance Studies, Amherst, in November
1996)
Tellechea Idigoras, J. L, Otra cara de la Invencible. La participacion vasca (San Sebastian,
1988)
Tenace, E. S., ‘The Spanish intervention in Brittany and the failure of Philip II’s bid for
European hegemony, 1589-98’ (University of Illinois Ph.D., 1997)
Terry, A., ‘War and literature in sixteenth-century Spain’, in J. R. Mulryne and M. Shewring,
eds. War, literature and the arts in sixteenth-century Europe (London, 1989)
Tetlock, P. E. and A. Belkin, eds, Counterfactual thought experiments in world politics. Logical,
methodological and psychological perspectives (Princeton, 1996)
Thatcher, M., The Downing Street years, (London, 1993)
Theibault, J., ‘Jeremiah in the village: prophecy, preaching, pamphlets and penance in the
Thirty Years’ War’, Central European History, XXVII (1994), 441-60
Thomas, L., To err is human , in J. Gross, ed.. The Oxford book of essays (Oxford, 1992)
Thomaz, L. F. F. R., ‘Factions, interests and messianism: the politics of Portuguese expansion
in the East, 1500—21’, Indian Economic and Social History Review, XXVIII (1991),
97-109
Thompson, I. A. A., ‘Spanish Armada gun procurement and policy’, in Gallagher and
Cruickshank, God’s obvious design, 69—84
Thompson, I. A. A., War and government in Habsburg Spain, 1^60—1620 (London, 1976)
431 Bibliography
Thompson, I. A. A., War and society in Habsburg Spain. Selected essays (London, 1992)
Thompson, I. A. A. and B. Yun Casalilla, eds. The Castilian crisis of the seventeenth century
(Cambridge, 1994)
Thorp, M. R., Catholic conspiracy in early Elizabethan foreign policy’. The Sixteenth-century
Journal, XV (1984), 431-48
Thorp, M. R., ‘William Cecil and the antichrist: a study in anti-Catholic ideology’, in Thorp
and Slavin, Politics, religion and diplomacy, 289—304
Thorp, M. R. and A. J. Slavin, eds. Politics, religion and diplomacy in early modern Europe: essays in
honor of De Lamar Jensen (Kirksville, MO, 1994: Sixteenth Century Essays and Studies
XXVII)
Timmer, E. M. A., ‘Een verweerschrift tegen Prins Willem’s Apologie, en drie andere
Spaanschgezinde pamfletten’, Bijdragen voor Geschiedenis en Oudheidkunde, 6th series VI
(1928), 61—94
Torres Lanzas, P. and F. Navas del Valle, eds, Catalogo de los documentos relatives a las Islas
Pilipinas existentes en el Archive General ck Indias de Sevilla, II (Barcelona, 1926)
Tosini, A., Cittadelle lombarde de fine 500: il castello di Milano nella prima eta spagnola’, in
C. Cresti, A. Fara and D. Lamberini, eds, Architettura militare nell’Europa del XVI secolo (Siena,
1988), 207-17
Trachtenberg, M., History and strategy (Princeton, 1991)
Turner, H. A., ‘Hitler’s impact on history’, in D. Wetzel, ed.. From the Berlin Museum to the
Berlin Wall. Essays on the cultural and political history of modern Germany (Westport, CT, 1996),
109-26
Ulloa, M., La hacienda real de Castilla en el reinado de Felipe II (revised edn, Madrid, 1977)
Ungerer, G., A Spaniard in Elizabethan England: the correspondence of Antonio Perez’s exile, II
(London, 1976)
Usherwood, S. and E., The Counter-Armada, iyc>6. The JournalV of the Mary Rose’ (London,
1983)
van Creveld, M., Command in war (Cambridge, MA, 1985)
van de Vrught, M., De criminele ordonnantien van lyjo. Enkele beschouwingen over de eerste
strafrechtscodiflcatie in de Nederlanden (Zutfen, 1978)
van der Essen, L., Alexandre Famhe, prince de Parme et gouverneur-general des Pays-Bas (5 vols,
Brussels, 1932—37)
van der Essen, L., ‘De auteur en de beteekenis van de Liber relationum’, Mededelingen van de
koninklijke Vlaamse Academie. Letteren, V part i (1943)
van der ^Voude, A., De crisis in de Opstand na de val van Antwerpen’, Bijdragen voor de
Geschiedenis van Nederland, XIV (1959-60), 38-57 and 81-104
van Deusen, N. E., ‘Recogimiento for women and girls in colonial Lima: an institutional and
cultural practice’ (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Ph.D. thesis, 1995)
van Durme, M., El Cardenal Granvela iyij—iy86 (Barcelona, 1957)
van Herwerden, P. J., Het verblijf van Lodewijk van Nassau in Prankrijk. Huguenoten en Geuzen,
iy68-iyj2 (Assen, 1932)
van Hoof, J. P. C. M., ‘Met een vijand als bondgenoot. De rol van het water bij de verdeding
van het Nederlandse grondgebied tegen een aanval over land’, Bijdragen en Mededelingen
betreffende de Geschiedenis der Nederlanden, CIII (1988), 622-51
van Nierop, H., The Blood Council of North Holland: ordinary people, the war and the law
during the revolt of the Netherlands’ (Unpublished paper presented to the University of
Minnesota Center for Early Modern History, October 1996)
van Oerle, H. A., Leiden binnen en buiten de Stadsvesten. De geschiedenis van de stedebouwkundige
ontwikkeling binnen het Leidse rechtsgebied tot het einde van de Gouden Eeuw (2 vols, Leiden, 1975)
van Overeem, J., ‘Justinus van Nassau en de Armada van 1588,’ Marineblad, LIII (1938), 821-
30
Vassberg, D. E., Land and society in Golden Age Castile (Cambridge, 1984)
432 Bibliography
Vazquez Maure, F., ‘Cartografia de la peninsula: siglos i6 a i8,’ in Historia de la cartografta
espamla (Madrid, 1982), 59—74
Vermaseren, B., De katholieke Nederlandsche Geschiedschrijving in de XVIe en XVlle eeuw over de
(Maastricht, 1941)
Vicente Maroto, M. I. and M. Esteban Pinero, Aspectos de la ciencia aplicada en la Espana del Siglo
de Oro (Valladolid, 1991)
Vigo, G.,Uno stato nell’impero. La difficile transizione al moderno nella Milano di eta spagnola (Milan,
1994)
Vilar, J. B., Mapas, pianos y fortificaciones hispdnicos de Tunez (siglos XVI-XIX) (Madrid, 1991)
Villari, R., La rivolta antispagnola a Napoli. Le origini (iy8y—i64j) (Bari, 1967)
Villari, R. and G. Parker, La polttica de Felipe II. Dos estudios (Valladolid, 1996)
von Aretin, K. O., ‘Die Lehensordnungen in Italien im 16. und 17. Jahrhundert und ihre
Auswirkungen auf die europaische Politik: ein Beitrag zur Geschichte des europaischen
Spatfeudalismus’, in H. Weber, ed., Politische Ordnungen und soziale Krafte im Alien Reich
(Wiesbaden, 1980), 53-84
von Clausewitz, C., On war, ed. and trans. M. Howard and P. Paret (Princeton, 1976)
von der Osten Sacken, C., San Lorenzo el Real de El Escorial: Studien zur Baugeschichte und Ikonologie
(Munich, 1979)
von Greyerz, K., Vorsehungsglaube und Kosmologie: Studien zu englischen Selbstzeugnissen des ij.
Jahrhunderts (Gottingen, 1990)
von Ranke, L., Sammtliche Werke, XXXIV (Leipzig, 1884)
Warlimont, W., Inside Hitler’s headquarters, 1939—43 (London, 1964)
Watts, B., ‘Friction in future war’, in A. R. Millett and W. A. Murray, eds, Brassey’s Mershon
American defense annual 1996—j (Washington, DC, 1996), 58—94
Waxman, M. C., ‘Strategic terror: Philip II and sixteenth-century warfare’. War in History, IV
(i997)> 339-47
Way, P., Codes and cyphers (London, 1977)
Wells, G. E., ‘Antwerp and the government of Philip II, 1555-67’ (Cornell University Ph.D.
thesis, 1982)
Wernham, R. B., After the Armada. Elizabethan England and the struggle for western Europe, 1388—
93 (Oxford, 1984)
Wernham, R. B., Before the Armada. The growth of English foreign policy 1488—1388 (London,
1966)
Wernham, R. B., The expedition of Sir John Norris and Sir Francis Drake to Spain and Portugal,
1389 (London, 1988: Navy Records Society, CXXVII)
Wernham, R. B., The making of English foreign policy 1338—1603 (Berkeley, 1980)
Wernham, R. B., The return of the Armadas. The last years of the Elizabethan war against Spain,
1393-1603 (Oxford, 1994)
Wheeler, E., ‘Methodological limits and the mirage of Roman sttMegy’, Journal of Military
History, LVII (1993), 7-41 and 215-41
Wheeler-Bennett, J. W., ed.. Action this day: working with Churchill (London, 1968)
Whitehead, B. T., Of brags and boasts. Propaganda in the year of the Armada (Stroud, 1994)
Wiener, C. Z., ‘The beleaguered isle. A study of Elizabethan and early Jacobean anti-
Catholicism’, Past and Present, LI (1971), 27—62
Williamson, J. A., Hawkins of Plymouth (2nd edn, London, 1969)
Wohlstetter, R., Pearl Harbor: warning and decision (Stanford, 1962)
Woltjer, J. J., Friesland in hervormingstijd (Leiden, 1962)
Wood, J. B., The king’s army. Warfare, soldiers and society during the Wars of Religion in France,
1362-1 3j6 (Cambridge, 1996)
Woolf, D. R., The idea of History in early Stuart England. Erudition, ideology and ‘the light of truth’
from the accession of James I to the Civil War (Toronto, 1991)
Worden, B., ‘Oliver Cromwell and the Sin of Achan’, in D. E. D. Beales and G. Best, eds.
History, society and churches: Essays in honour of Owen Chadwick (Cambridge, 1985), 125—45
B ibliography 433
Worden, B., ‘Providence and politics in Cromwellian England’, Past and Present, CIX (1985),
55-99
Yates, F., Astraea. The imperial theme in the sixteenth century (London, 1975)
Zijp, A., ‘Hoofdstukken uit de economische en sociale geschiedenis van de Polder Zijpe in de
I7e en i8e eeuw’, Tijdschrift voor Geschiedenis, LXX (1957), 29—48 and 176—88
Index
Academy of Mathematics, Madrid, 63
Academy, of the duke of Alba, 57
Acheh, Sultan of (Indonesia), 8, 189
Acosta, Jose de, S. J., 19, 27
Acuna, Hernando de, soldier-poet, 102
Africa, North, Spanish possessions in, 8; See also
Bizerta; Djerba; La Goletta; Oran; Tripoli; Tunis
Agnese, Battista, cartographer, 99—100
Akbar, Mogul Emperor of India 1556-1605, 289
Alamos de Barrientos, Balthasar, lawyer and
government critic, 108-9, 280, 403
Alava, Don Frances de, Spanish ambassador to
France, 1564—71, diplomatic activity, 49, 123,
^35> 156; religious views, 103
Alba, Don Fernando Alvarez de Toledo, third duke
of, governor-general of the Netherlands 1567—73,
councillor of Charles V and Philip II; ‘Academy’
of, 57; archives, 398; and Charles V, 38, 40; and
information, 13, 40, 48, 55-6, 59, 304 n. 4, 321
n. 42, 367 n. 35; as military commander, 7, 56,
125-30, 133, 138; and Netherlands, 9, 55, 118,
121-34, I35> 314 n. 103, 342 nn. 54, 61, 62
and Philip II, 13, 39, 59, 121, 282;
correspondence with, 55, 122, 141, 162;
powers curtailed by, 123, 152; disagreement
with, 91, 157—63; disgraced by 38, 132, 314 n.
103
religious views of, 92, 134, 153—4
relations with foreign rulers and states:
England, 59, 91-2, 124, 149, 151-153,
156-64, 177; France, 59, 124, 149, 157;
Mary Stuart, 153-154, 158, 161; Ottoman
Empire, 134; Papacy, 80, 157-9, 161;
Portugal, 56; and Spanish Court, 25, 57, 308
n. 46; unpopularity of, 124, 142; see also
Netherlands
Alba, Don Fadrique de Toledo, fourth duke of, 129,
144, 341 n. 50
Albert of Austria, archduke, viceroy of Portugal
1583-93, ruler of the Netherlands 1596-1621,
89, 220, 279
Albret, house of, see Anthony d’Albret, Henry IV,
Jeanne d’Albret, Catherine d’Albret
Alcabala, sales tax, in Netherlands, 9-10, 123-4; in
Spanish America, 9, 303 n. 3
Alcala, Diego de, Spanish saint, 81
Alcaldes de Casa y Corte (Spanish Court Law
Enforcement Agency), 17
Alcazarquivir, battle of (1578), 102, 165
Aldana, Francisco de, soldier-poet, 102
Aleman, Mateo, author, 280
Alen^on and Anjou, Francis Hercules, duke of,
elected prince of the Netherlands (1581-4), 169-
171
Algiers, North Africa, 7, 31, 194, 222, 225
Alkmaar, Holland, 124, 134, 141, 342 n. 62
Allen, William, Cardinal, superior of the English
Catholic seminary at Douai; and Enterprise of
England, 164-5, 191. 201-2, 220, 227, 356 n. 2,
357 n. 12; propaganda of, 96, 201—2
Almazan, Don Francisco Hurtado de Mendoza,
marquis of (formerly count of Monteagudo),
councillor of Philip II, Spanish Ambassador in
Germany 1570—7, and viceroy of Navarre 1579—
86, 27, 59, 90
Altamira archive, 397—8
Alpujarras, revolt of the (1568-71), 38-40, 44, loi,
113, 122, 156, 163, 176, 328 n. 35
ambassadors, at Spanish Court, 16, 17, 19-20, 49,
154-5. 306 nn. 22-27, 307 n. 38, 399-400;
importance to intelligence gathering, 218—219,
225; Spanish, 56, 82, 155
America, see Spanish America, New Spain, Peru
Andalusia, Spain, 160, 184, 194
Andrada Castel Blanco, Manoel de, strategist, 8
Anguisciola, Sophanisba, artist, 95
Anjou, Francis Hercules duke of, see Alengon and
Anjou, duke of
Anjou, Philip of Bourbon duke of, later Philip V of
Spain, 393 n. 90
Anna of Austria, wife of Philip II 1570-80, 102,
160, 304 n. 4
Anthony d’Albret, king of Navarre, 135, 147
Antonio of Avis, Dom, prior of Crato, pretender to
Portuguese throne, 167, 170, 175, 215, 260, 360
n. 35
Antwerp, Brabant, 112, 170, 241, 244, 379 n. 56
Apian, Peter, cartographer, 61
Aragon, crown of, 14, 65, 283
Aragon, kingdom of,
Philip II and government of, 14, 151, 308 n. 39,
315 n. 104; revolt of 1591-2, 92, 275
Aranjuez, Spain, palace of, 18, 21
arbitristas (Spanish reformers), 108—9, 338 n. 4
Arceo, Hieronimo, Spanish official, 231, 238—9, 379
n. 50
435
436 Index
archives and Philip II, 66, 323 n. 60, 397—99
Ark Royal, flagship of Howard of Effingham, 254
Armada, Spanish, of 1588:
artillery of, 252, 258, 258-61, 386 n. 34;
communications with, 232—5, 243—4, 265;
cost, 41, 180-182, 189, 198, 269-70, 360 n.
37; difficulties of, 107, 166, 206, 255-62, 266;
failure of, 214, 251, 265-68, 270, 281; losses
of, 251-252; papal support for, 190-1, 201,
357-8; mobilization of, 201, 211, 255, 388;
munitions, 252, 258, 387; plans for, 27, 71,
103, 107, 186-7, 195-6, 209-11, 225, 262-3,
302; secrecy surrounding, 195—6, 209—10, 220,
226—7; tactical development, 188, 209—10, 257
Armada, Spanish, of 1596, 276, 391 n. 24; of 1597,
277-8; of 1599, 279
Armada of Flanders, 138—9, 187, 231—3, 237-48
Army of Flanders:
and Armada of 1588, 182, 185, 205, 229—50;
campaigns, 121-2, 123-4, 125-30, 131-2,
171, 175-6, 272-5, 278-80; costs, 87-8, 123,
130-2, 133-5; efficiency of, 188, 237;
embarkation plan, 1588, 231, 235, 241—2,
277; fleet, see Armada of Flanders; logistical
problems, 234-37, 241; mutinies of, 88, 106,
130-133, 136-7, 165, 278-9; size, 9, 122,
129, 232, 235-6, 341; see also Alba, duke of;
Parma, duke of
artillery, early modern naval, 252, 255—6, 258—9,
261,271-2, 386
Asculi, Don Antonio de Leyva, prince of, 265
Asia, Spanish presence in, 8—9, 50, 63, 189, 286
see also Portugal, overseas possessions; Philippines
assassination in early modern Europe:
for or against Spain, 14, 83, 134-5, I7i> i75>
327 n. 26, 343 n. 67; against others, 147, 304
n. 11, 305 n. 12
Assonleville, Christopher d’, Netherlands minister of
Philip II, 157
astronomy, Spanish, 62-5
Atlas of Spain, see maps
audiences, see Philip II, audiences of
Augsburg, Germany, 78-79
Augustus Caesar, Roman Emperor, 4
Aumale, duke of, 192
Austria, House of, see Habsburgs
Avalos, Hernando de, treasury official, 21
Avila, Teresa of, Spanish mystic, 15, 393 n. 8
Ayamonte, Don Antonio de Guzman marquis of,
governor of Milan 1573-80, 8, 27, 84-5
Azores:
conquest of, 1580-83, 38, 102, 167, 268; English
designs on, 194, 273, 279; see also Cuervo;
Flores; Terceira
Babington, Anthony, conspirator, 190, 335 n. no
Baker, Matthew, shipwright, 255
Balfour, William, soldier, 135
bankruptcy, decrees of, see Spain, finances of; Philip
II, finances of
‘Barbarossa’, operation (1941), 108, 207
Barbary Coast, see Africa, North; Algiers
Barcelona, Spain, 60, 66, 313 n. 92
Baudouin, Francois, French spy, n8
Bazan, Alvaro de, marquis of Santa Cruz, see Santa
Cruz, marquis of
Beachy Head, England, 233
Bergues, Jean de Glymes marquis of, 320 n. 37
Bertendona, Martin de. Armada squadron
commander:
and Armada, 39, 106, 266, 269; and High Seas
Fleet, 276; and Ridolfi plot, 161, 350 n. 41
Billy, Gaspar de Robles, baron, 340 n. 35, 341 n. 42
Bizerta, North Africa, 7
Bobadilla, Don Francisco de, soldier, senior military
commander aboard the Armada, 229, 233, 235
Bond of Association, English (1584), 175
Bor, Pieter, historian, 369 n. 51
Borgia, Francis, General of Jesuit Order 1566—72,
19, 305 n 21
Borromeo, Carlo, Cardinal, 81
Bossu, Maximilien de Henin, count of, governor of
Holland 1567-73, 125-6, 138-9
Botero, Giovanni, political writer, 272
Bothwell, Francis, Earl, 154
Bougie, North Africa, 7
Boulogne, France, 192—3, 200
‘boundary conditions’, importance of, 113—14, 144
Bourbourg, conference of (1588), 200—201, 212
Braudel, Fernand, historian, xix, i, 48, 300 n. 6,
327 n. 25
Breda, Brabant, conference of (1575), 142—3
Brill [Den Brielle], Holland, 124, 128
Brittany, France, 274, 278,
Bruges, Flanders, 170
Brussels, Brabant, 121, 217
Buongiovanni, Mutio, papal Collector in Portugal,
220
Burghley, William Cecil, Baron, chief minister of
England 1558-98:
administrative methods, 163, 172—3, 227, 247,
269, 310 n. 65; archives, 401; foreign policy, 6,
147, 216-217, 223, 354 n. 87, 372 n. 77;
Burgundy, see Franche Comte
Cabrera de Cordoba, Luis, courtier and historian, 93,
94. 248, 302 n. 15
Cadiz, Spain, 199; Drake raids (1587), 44, 193-4;
English capture (1596), 8-9, 27, 256, 366 n. 23
Calais, France, 85, 200, 227, 234
Camara de Castilla, Spanish organ of government, 23
Cambrai, Imperial enclave in the Netherlands under
Spanish rule, 170
Camden, William, historian, 3
Campanella, Tommaso, political writer, 4, 99, 301
Carlos of Austria, Don, son of Philip II, 44, 119,
122, 294, 349 n. 20
Carnero, Antonio, treasury official and historian,
239. 245
Cartagena, Colombia, 181
Carter, Charles Howard, historian, 48-9
cartography, see maps
Castello de Oro, see Smerwick
Castiglione, Balthasar, ambassador, courtier and
writer, 14
Castile, as center of Philip IPs monarchy, 2, 88, 283;
crisis of the 1590s in, 279; finances of, 43, 88,
144. 151. 269-70; see also Spain, Cortes of Castile,
and council of Castile
Castillo, Fray Hernando de, preacher, 166
Castillo, Juan de, Spanish official and suspected
Dutch spy, 219, 369 n. 51
Castro, Don Rodrigo de, archbishop of Seville, 180,
189
Catalina Michaela, daughter of Philip II, 40, 82,
172
Index 437
Cateau-Cambresis, treaty of (1559), 85-6, 116, 149,
279
Catherine d’Albret, sister of Henry IV, 170
Catherine de Medici, queen dowager of France
1559-89, 49, 119, 171, 401
Catholic League of France, 1584-98; and Henry III,
82, 169-70, 192, 200, 272; and Spain, 86, 199,
390; progress of, 172, 222, 274; see also Guise,
duke of
Catholicism, see religion
Cecil, William, see Burghley
Cesi, Count Niccolo, envoy of duke of Parma, 230—1
Charles Emanuel, duke of Savoy, see Savoy, duke of
Chantonnay, Thomas Perrenot de, Spanish
ambassador to France 1559—63 and Germany
1564-71, 56, 70
Chapman, Richard, shipwright, 254
Charles I, king of England, Scotland, and Ireland,
1625-49, 104-5, 336 n. 115
Charles II, king of Spain, 1665-1700, 393
Charles IX, king of France, 1560-74:
government of, 8, 20, 49, 80, 93, 134, 153, 160;
and Netherlands, 125; and Philip II, 86, 118,
126, 157
Charles V, ruler of the Netherlands 1506—55, of
Spain and Spanish Italy, 1516-56, Holy Roman
Emperor, 1519—1558:
administration of, 38, 40, 78-9; and information,
48, 318 n. 14; and Netherlands, 88, 115—16;
and Philip II, xv, 13, 42, 77, 115, 147, 309 n.
51, 316 n. 119; and Spanish Italy, 83, 85;
finances of, 87—8, 116;
foreign relations with:
Denmark, 86, 113; France, 85; Italian
independent states, 80—1, 326 n. 17;
Portugal, 86
Grand Strategy of, 3, 77-90, 99; ‘political
testament’ of, 1548, 77—90, 115;
propaganda, 3, 99-100, 301; religion of, 77
Chaves, Alonso de, naval writer, 257
China, empire of, 8, 290
Chinchon, Don Diego Cabrera de Bobadilla count of,
minister of Philip II, 44, 277, 330 n. 64
Chios, Aegean archipelago, 120
Churchill, Winston, British Prime Minister 1940—5
and 1951-5, 31-2, 40, 98
ciphers, use of in sixteenth century:
by England, 215-16; by Netherlands, 219; by
Spain, 58, 215-16, 317 n. 8, 366 n. 30
Clausewitz, Carl von, military theorist, 52, 108,
205-6
Clemenceau, Georges, statesman, 40
codes and code-breaking, see cyphers
Colegios Mayores, Spanish graduate colleges, 102
Coligny, Gaspard de, Protestant leader, 6, 125—6,
147
Coloma, Carlos, soldier and historian, 239
Colonna, Marco Antonio, minister of Philip II and
the Papacy, 82, 213
Colonna, Odo, soldier, 213, 365 n. 19
communications in the sixteenth century, ii, 48-55,
57, 216-17, 220, 234, 319 nn. 24, 26, 29
See also distance
composite states in Europe, 91—92, 113
Comuneros revolt, Castile (i520-1), 321 n. 43
conciliar system of Philip II, 15, 21-8, 36-7, 310 n.
61
see also councils of Philip II
Constantinople, Ottoman capital, 7,53
Cordoba, Don Diego de, courtier and critic of Philip
11,31
Cornejo, Pedro, author, 322 n. 76
Cortes of Castile:
and Philip II, 91, 270, 276, 285; taxes voted by,
loi,271
Corunna, Spain, 107, 188, 233
council secretaries, Spanish, 23
council of Trent, third session of (1562-3), 56, 154
council of Troubles, in Netherlands (1567—74), 123
councils of Philip II in Madrid:
archives, 398; council of Aragon, 14, 17, 22; — of
Castille, 17, 22, 23; — of Finance, 17, 19, 22,
28, 105; — of Portugal, 22; — of State, 22, 23,
25, 38, 89, 138, 142, 161, 270, 274; - of the
Indies, 16, 22, 28, 102, 189; - of the Orders,
22, 68-9; - of War, 22, 28
counterfactual considerations, 292—4
couriers, 27, 48-9, 54-7, 213, 317 n. 8, 318 n. 15
Court of Spain, see Spain, Court of
Covarrubias, Don Diego de, president of the council
of Castile 1572-7, 26, 301 n. 8, 309 n. 51
Creswell, Joseph, S. J., 104
Croft, Sir James, English minister and Spanish
pensioner, 201
Cromwell, Oliver, soldier and statesman, 105
Cuervo, island in the Azores, 194
Cuzco, Peru, 3
Cyprus, Ottoman conquest of (1570-1), 6, 122, 160
d’Albret family, see Anthony d’Albret; Catherine
d’Albret; Jeanne d’Albret; Henry IV
d’Assonleville, Christophe, see Assonleville,
Christophe d’
Da Pisa, Jacopo, English spy, 217, 368
Dale, Valentine, diplomat, 205, 212—13, 3^5 n. 16
Davis, Jefferson, president of the Confederate States
of America 1861-5, 290
‘Day of the Barricades’ (Paris, 1588), 200
De Gaulle, Charles, statesman, 98
Denmark, kingdom of, 86, 113, 200, 363 n. 79
diplomats, see ambassadors
distance, challenge to effective government:
in Spain’s European possessions, 48—50, 52—4,
54-5, 56-8, 70-1, 123, 130-2, 140-1, 151,
156, 166, 188, 195, 233-5, 267, 376 n. 27; in
Spain’s overseas possessions, 3, 50—2, 55; in
other states, 47-8, 54, 153, 289, 348 n. 16; see
also communications and couriers
Djerba, North Africa, 91, 118, 152
Dominguez, Francisco, cartographer, 63, 65
Dona, Leonardo, Venetian ambassador to Spain
1570-73:
assessment of Philip II, 32, 71-2; interaction with
Spanish government, 13, 15, 16, 19, 28, 32,
49-50
Doria, Juan Andrea, commander of Philip IPs galleys
and Spanish councillor, 82
Douai, France, English Catholic seminary at, 164,
191
Dovara, Luigi, diplomat, 179-80, 357 nn. 7, ii, 12,
358 n. 20
Dover, England, 125, 185
Drake, Sir Francis, naval leader:
and Armada (1588), 213-14, 225, 385 n. 23;
Circumnavigation (1577-81), 163-4, 166, 171;
raid on Cadiz (1587), 88, 193; raid on Galicia
438 Index
and Caribbean (1585-86), 4, 30, 86, 104, 171-
2, 175—6, 180—I, 184, 196; last Caribbean raid
(1595-96), 256, 257
Dreadnought, English warship, 253
Drucker, Peter F, efficiency expert, xvii
Dunkirk, Flanders:
as embarkation point for Army of Flanders (1587-
88), 227, 229, 233, 235-7; marine geography
of, 245, 298; Spain recaptures (1583), 170
Dutch Republic, 1581-1795:
archives of, 401-2; army of, 279; navy of, 138,
241, 243-5, 247; and Armada, 189, 200, 243;
and England, 169-70, 172-3, 175, 200-1,
226-7; and Spain, 108, 118, 174, 273-5, 280;
and Spanish Netherlands, 173, 200
see also William of Nassau
Dutch Revolt, see Netherlands
Duyck, Anthonis, Dutch official, 111
Edward IV, king of England 1461-83, 182
Effingham, Howard of, see Howard of Effingham
Egmont, Count Lamoral of, soldier and politician,
70, 117, 119—20
El Greco (Domenico Theotocopoulos), painter, 95
Elisabeth de Valois, wife of Philip II 1560—8, 44,
85, 119, 122
Elizabeth I, queen of England 1558—1603:
administrative style of, 14, 72, 203, 212, 223—4,
225, 227, 324 n. 76; and Ridolfi plot, 160,
161-3; assassination attempts against, 147,
160-3, 169, 171, 175, 190; excommunication
of, 151; foreign policy of, see England, foreign
relations; intelligence service, see England,
intelligence services; marriage plans of, 148—9,
169-70; naval policies of, see Royal Navy;
succession, 13, 304 n. 3; weakness of, 149,
153. 163;
Emanuel Philibert, see Savoy, duke of
embargos, trade; in 1563-5, 154; in 1568-74, 124,
156-7; in 1585-6, 173-6, 189
England:
and Ireland, 278-9; archives, 400-1; as composite
state, 113; commerce raiding, 156, 163—4, 214,
279-80; defence, 192, 202, 225-7; see also
Royal Navy; finances, 223, 226—7, 253, 264;
foreign relations with:
Denmark, 200-1, 363 n. 79; France, 151—3,
157, 163, 172, 193; Germany, 157; Italian
states, 217, 351 n. 45; Netherlands, 169-72,
175, 200—1, 226—7; Ottoman Empire, 192;
Portugal (and Dom Antonio), 157, 167,
170-1, 176; Scotland, 152, 156; see also
Mary Stuart; Spain, 6-7, 105, 108, 113,
147-9, 152-7, 161-3, 170-1, 174-6,
189-90, 192, 212, 225-7, 280, 285,
356 n. 104; Spanish Netherlands, 200-1,
212-13
intelligence services of, 192, 209, 214—16, 218,
220-3, 238, 378 nn. 44, 46; see also
Walsingham, Francis; invasions of, 169,
182-3, 186-7, 192, 382 n. 93; military
weakness, 149, 153, 158, 177, 202, 205-6;
religious complexity of, 104, 158; see also
Elizabeth I; Royal Navy
Englefield, Francis, Catholic politician and exile,
164-5
English Channel, 195, 234; see also Armada, Spanish
Enkhuizen, Holland, 125, 128, 138
Enterprise of England, see Armada, Spanish
Erasso, Francisco de, councillor of Philip II, 25, 40,
59, 117-18, 309 n. 49
Ercilla, Alonso de, poet and soldier, 102
Escalante, Bernardino de, inquisitor and government
advisor; on Enterprise of England, 27, 186, 198,
272—3; opposes intervention in France, 275
Escorial, monastery, mausoleum, and palace of, 18,
60-1, 97-9, 167
Espinosa, Cardinal Diego de, minister of Philip II,
president of the council of Castile 1565—72, 26,
loo-i, 102, 335 n. 105
Espinosa, Juan Fernandez de, financier and treasurer
of Castile 1575-84, 18,19, 41. 305 n. 19, 315 n.
116
espionage, see cyphers; spies
Esquivel, Pedro de, cartographer, 60
Ethiopia, Philip IPs contacts with, 59
Essex, England, 227
Farnese, Alexander, see Parma, duke of
Feltham, Owen, traveller and travel writer, 115, 145
Fenton, Edward, naval commander, 171
Ferdinand VII, king of Aragon, 1479—1516, 4, 99,
305 n. 12, 326 n. 12, 328 n. 39
Ferdinand of Austria, Holy Roman Emperor, 1558—
64, 78, 325 nn. 5, 8, 347 n. 2
Ferdinand of Austria, Archduke of Tyrol, 69
Feria, Gomez Suarez de Figueroa, count (from 1567
duke) of, advisor to Philip II:
ambassador in England, 1557—9, 148-9; Philip
IPs chief court adviser on English affairs, 152,
154, 161
Fernandez de Espinosa, Juan, see Espinosa, Juan
Fernandez de
Ferrara, duchy of, 81, 83
Figueroa, Don Lope de, soldier, 102, 257—8
Finale Ligure, Italy, 80, 84, 217
Fisher, John Jackie,’ Viscount Kilverston, naval
expert, 266—7
Flanders:
and Armada, 182, 230-235, 240-1; Parma’s
reconquest of, 170, 244; surveys of, 241, 245-
6, 248; see also Army of Flanders, Dutch Revolt,
Netherlands
Florence, duchy of (from 1570 grand duchy of
Tuscany):
and Armada, 179—80, 2ii, 218, 357 n. 7; and
Charles V, 81, 326; and Philip II, 49, 82, 84;
see also Medici, Francesco de
Flores, island in the Azores, 194
Flores de Valdes, Diego, Armada commander, 263—
4, 374 n. 10
Florida, colonization of, 56, 70, 139, 156, 345
Flushing, Zealand, 124, 125, 128, 176, 211
fortifications, English, 226; Italian-style, 83-4, iii-
12, 115, 125-6, 127, 129, 328 n. 30, 341 n. 45
Foucault, Michel, intellectual, 65
Fourquevaux, Raymond de Beccarie, baron of, French
ambassador in Spain 1565—72:
career, 306 n. 27; diplomatic practices of, 49,
219, 306 n. 24, 369 n. 50; and Philip II, 19-
20, 26, 33, 49, 65-6, 306 n. 24
France, kingdom of, 93, 119, 122, 124; as composite
state, 113
foreign relations with England, 169, 191; Italy,
85; Netherlands, 124, 134, 169—72;
Ottoman Empire, 134, 216; Scotland,
Index 439
152—3. 148—50, 348 n. 16; Spain, 6, 8,
85-6, 93. 108, 124, 149, 170, 172, 192,
272-5, 278-9, 285, 338 n. 10
religious wars in, 119, 122, 153, 160, 272-5;
weakness of, 8, 85-6, 147, 273; see also
Catholic League; Francis II; Henry II; Henry
III; Henry IV; Huguenots
Francesco de Medici, grand duke of Tuscany, see
Medici, Francesco de
Franche Comte of Burgundy:
and Habsburgs, 6, 147; security of, 190; troops of,
236
Francis I, king of France 1515-47, 48
Francis II, king of France 1559-60, 149, 150, 152,
153
Frederick II, king of Denmark 1559—88, 200
Friesland, province of, 54, 127, 341 n. 42
Furio Ceriol, Fadrique, political thinker and
politician, 17
Gaddis, John Lewis, historian, 289-90, 295-6, 394
n. 23
Galleon Leicester, English privateer, 254
Galleasses, combat effectiveness of, 248—9, 251, 384
nn. 15, 16
Galleons, combat effectiveness of, 251—68; see also
artillery, naval; Navy
Gayangos, Pascual de, historian, 397
Gelderland, province of, 127, 275; see also Van den
Berg, Count William; Zutphen
Geneva, republic of, 190—i
Genoa, republic of, 23, 81—2, 217, 235
George III, king of England, 1760-1820, xviii, 304
Germany, see Holy Roman Empire
Ghent, Flanders, 170, 241
Gianfigliazzi, Bongiovanni, Florentine ambassador to
Spain, 217, 368
Goa, capital of Portuguese India, 50, 56, 399
Gomez de Silva, Ruy, prince of Eboli, councillor of
Philip II; and foreign relations, 149; and
Netherlands, 118-19, 130, 141; and Philip II, 40,
59; faction of, 25, 57, 308 n. 46
Gongora, Luis de, mystic and writer, 96
Gonzaga, Vespasiano, duke of Sabbionetta and
minister of Philip II, 82, 313 n. 89
Gonzalez de Cellorigo, Martin, lawyer and political
analyst, 108, 280
Granada, revolt of, see Alpujarras
Granada, treaty of 1500, 59, 149
grand strategy, 112; defined, xv; of Philip II, xvi,
xvii, xix, 2-3, 7, 77, 89-92, 120, 139, 177, 188,
190, 194-5, 206, 251, 267, 276, 282; strategic
surprise, 224-5, 371 n. 73
Granvelle, Antoine Perrenot de. Cardinal, minister of
Philip II in the Netherlands 1559—64, Italy
1566-79 and Spain 1579-86:
and England, 149, 152, 167, 173-4, 181; and
France, 149; and Netherlands, 117-18, 134,
173—4. 341 n. 49, 342 n. 61; and Philip II, 21,
29. 59, 66-7, 107, 117, 219, 322 n. 57;
archives, 398; career, 102, 219
Gravelines, battles of,
1558, 248; 1588, 229, 249, 255, 265—6
Gregory XIII, pope 1572-85, 164-5, 169, 179, 182
Guderian, Heinz, military commander, 292, 394 n.
27
Guevara, Francisco de, Spanish magistrate, 214, 355
n. too, 383 n. 2, 389 n. 68
Guilmartin, John, F., historian, 74
Guise, Henry, duke of, leader of French Catholic
League:
and England, 169, 199, 222; and France, 170,
172, 200, 272; and Spain, 83, 86, 199—200,
390 n. 13
Guzman de Silva, Diego, Spanish ambassador to
England 1564-8, Genoa 1569-71, and Venice
1571-6, 102, 154-5, 349 n. 23
Haarlem, Holland, 124, 127, 129-34, 138, 341 n. 45
Habsburg family:
dynastic ambitions of, 78-9, 147; inbreeding of,
II. 294
Haeyen, Aelbert, cartographer, 246, 381 n. 71
Harwich, Essex, 161
Hawkins, John, Elizabethan ‘seadog’ and minister:
ambushed at San Juan de Ulua, 156; and Armada,
260; and Ridolfi plot, 161-2, 351 nn. 41—4;
and Royal Navy, 253
Henry II, king of France 1547-59, 149-50
Henry III, king of France 1574-89:
assassination of, 147, 305 n. ii; refusal to support
Dutch Revolt, 172; relations with Catholic
League, 82, 86, 192, 272-3; relations with
Philip II, 86, 170, 273
Henry IV, king of Navarre 1563-1610, king of
France 1589—1610; and Spain, 6, 170, 273, 278—
9; campaigns against French Catholic League,
274; heir presumptive of France, 12, 86, 171-2;
invades Savoy, 279; religion, 108
Henry Tudor, later King Henry VII of England
1485-1509, 182
Herrera, Fernando de, poet and soldier, 102
Herrera y Tordesillas, Antonio de, historian, 322 n.
50,403
High Seas Fleet, see navy, Spanish
historians:
of Philip II, 402—4; and theories of causation,
xvii-xix, 11-12, 111-14, 205-7, 281, 283,
288,292-4, 295-6
Hitler, Adolf, dictator, 98, 290—2, 295, 333 n. 91
Holy League (1571-3). 26, 49, 89, 123, 317 n. 9
Holy Roman Empire:
and Netherlands, 6, 115-16; and Spain, 80, 84;
succession to, 1551, 78-9; see also Charles V,
Ferdinand I, Maximilian II, Rudolf II
Hood, Thomas, navigator, 171
Hooft, Cornelis Pieterszoon, magistrate and
historian, xix, xx
Horozco y Covarrubias, Juan, writer, 104
Howard of Effingham, Charles, Lord Admiral of
England, 192; and Armada, 222, 244, 266;
Elizabeth I’s instructions to, 72, 172—3, 225
Huguenots (French Protestants), 86, 126, 153, 157,
285
Hundredth Penny, Netherlands tax, 9
Ibanez de Santa Cruz, Inigo, critic of Philip II,
403
Ibarra, Francisco de, soldier and would-be assassin,
135
Iconoclastic Fury, 1566, 121
Idiaquez, Don Juan de, Spanish ambassador to Genoa
1574—8 and Venice 1578—9, Spanish secretary of
State 1579—87, principal minister for foreign
affairs 1587-1613:
and Armada, 195, 270; and duke of Parma,
440 Index
230-1, 235; administrative methods of, 23, 59,
307 n. 28, 308 n. 39, 403
Imperial Vicar in Italy, 78-80, 84, 325 n. 8
India:
Philip IPs possessions in, 50, 59; Mogul rule in,
289
Infantado, Don Inigo de Mendoza duke of, 68
information technology in the sixteenth century, 47—
65; see also distance
Inquisition:
in Netherlands, 104, 120; in Spain, 58, 97, 270,
310 n. 64; in Spanish America, 9
intelligence:
against Spain, 209-16, 217-20, 223-4, 238, 398
nn. 44, 46, 391 n. 25; by Spain, 47—65, 193,
216—17, 220—3; see also cyphers, spies
inundation, use in war:
during the Dutch Revolt, 136-8, 343 nn. 71-2,
344 nn. 75, 77; by United States of America in
Vietnam, 137, 344 n. 74
Ireland:
and Philip II, 54, 160-64,184, 186-7, 278-9;
and England, 279; see also Tyrone, Earl of
Isabella Clara Eugenia of Austria, daughter of Philip
II:
bequeathed Netherlands, 89, 279; betrothed to
Albert of Austria, 89; and English succession,
161, 191, 360 n. 39; and French succession,
86, 172,
Islam,
in Spanish grand strategy, 8, 92
millenium of, 99
Isle of Wight, England, 196, 225, 233, 264, 272
Italy, independent states of:
defence of, 82-3; intelligence-gathering, 217—18;
relations with emperor, 80-1; relations with
France, 85; relations with Spain, 80—3, 90, 108,
218; and Ottoman Empire, 216; see also
Florence, Ferrara, Genoa, Lucca, Mantua,
Naples, Papacy, Parma, Savoy, Urbino, Venice
Italy, Spanish possessions in:
Visitations of, 33, 59; contribution to Spanish
treasury, 2, 84; opposition of, 90, 108, 330 n.
63; see also Milan, Naples, Sicily
Ivry, battle of, 1589, 274
James VI, king of Scotland, 1568-1625, king of
England, 1603-25, 161, 168, 191, 280
Juan, Jaume, astronomer, 63
Jeanne d Albret, queen dowager of Navarre, 20
Jeronimite Order, and Philip II, 67
Jesuit Order, and Philip II, 19
Jews, and Philip II, 91, 277
Jodi, Alfred, Hitler’s chief of operation staff, 290—2,
394 nn. 24, 29
John of Austria, Don, illegitimate son of Charles V,
captain-general of the Mediterranean fleet 1568
and 1571-6, captain-general of the Army of
Flanders 1576-8:
and England, 161, 164-5; and Netherlands,
122, 144—5, 165, 169; and Philip II, 38—9,
I44~5> 315 n. 106; in Mediterranean, 23,
131
Johnson, Lyndon B., US President 1963—9, xvii,
137, 3n n. 76
Johnson, Samuel, intellectual, 293
Joinville, treaty of, 1584, 172, 232, 354 n. 85
Juana of Austria, daughter of Charles V, regent of
Spain 1554-9, 151
‘July Crisis’ (1914), 47, 73
Junta system of Philip II, 26, 30, 309 n. 52, 311 n.
17; Junta de Noche, 30, 44, 277; Junta Magna, 9,
39
Justinus of Nassau, illegitimate son of William of
Orange, vice-admiral of Zealand, 247, 249
Kennedy, John F., US President 1961-3, xv, 312 n
80
Kennedy, Paul, historian, i, iii—14, 143
Kent, England, 187-8, 225, 227, 232
Khevenhiiller zu Aichelburg, Hans, count of
Frankenburg, imperial ambassador to Spain 1574-
1606, 199, 211, 220, 376 n. 27
‘king’s two bodies’ theory, 17, 108
Kinsale, Ireland, 188, 279
Knights of St. John, 6; see also Tripoli; Malta
knowledge and power in early modern Europe, 65-
75
Koenigsberger, H. G., historian, i
La Goletta, North Africa, loi, 106, 140, 334 n. 102
La Noue, Francois de, soldier and writer, 99
Laloo, Alonso de, Netherlands agent at Philip II’s
Court, 65
Languedoc, France, 274
Laubespine, Sebastian de, French ambassador to
Spain 1559-62, 28, 65-6, 216
Laws, see Philip II, legislation of
Laws of War in sixteenth-century Europe, 127, 129,
130, 136-8, 141, 342 n. 61
Le Havre, France, 217
Leicester, Robert Dudley, earl of, minister of
Elizabeth I, governor-general of Netherlands
1585-8, 170, 181, 212, 223
Leiden, Holland, 106, 124, 135
Lennox, Esme Stuart, duke of, favorite of Tames VI
168
Leon, Lucrecia de, ‘prophet’ and critic of Philip II,
104, 270, 288, 332 n. 78
Leoni, Pompeo, sculptor, 95
Lepanto, battle of, 1571, 7, 19, 49, 52, 84, loo-i,
123, 318 n. 16, 334 n. 99
Lerma, Don Francisco Gomez de Sandoval y Rojas,
duke of, chief minister of Philip III 1598-1618,
284
Liddell-Hart, Basil, military theorist and historian, i
Lincoln, Abraham, US president 1861-5, 4°, 394 n.
22
Lippomano, Hieronimo, Venetian ambassador to
Spain 1586-9, 28, 197
Liverpool, England, 164-5, 169
Lombardy, see Milan, duchy of
London, England, 52, 186, 187
Londono, Don Sancho de, soldier, 127
longitude, attempts to establish, 62, 63, 322 n. 53
Longlee, Pierre de Segusson lord of, French resident
at the Spanish Court 1582-90:
diplomatic activity of, 176, 211, 221, 368, 321 n.
38, 371 n. 61; secret contact with papal nuncio,
221
Lopez de Legazpi, Miguel, explorer and conqueror,
69, 323 n. 66
Lopez de Velasco, Juan, royal cosmographer and
chronicler of the Indies, 61-65
Louis, count of Nassau, Dutch leader, 20, 125, 128,
136, 306 n. 24
Index 441
Louis XIV, king of France, 1643—1715, 393 n. 8
Low Countries, see Dutch Republic, Netherlands
Lucca, republic of, 80—3, 218
Luttwak, Edward, military theorist, 2
Maassluis, Holland, 125
Macao, Portuguese colony, 50, 62, 63
Machiavelli, Niccolo, intellectual, 206
Madrid, Spain, Philip IPs capital, 17-18, 305 n. 17
Malacca, 8, 50
Malta, island of, 70
Man, John, English ambassador to Spain 1566-68,
154—6, 212
Manrique, Don Jorge, inspector—general of the
Armada, 238, 241, 374 n. 13, 379 n. 50
Manrique de Lara, Don Juan, soldier, 238, 378 n. 49
Manrique, Don Luis, almoner and critic of Philip II,
20, 21, lOI
Mantua, duchy of, 81, 82, 211, 218, 327 n. 24
Manuel I, king of Portugal, 1495-1521, 4, 99
maps, use of in sixteenth century, 24, 59-63, 64,
246, 321 n. 46, 323 n. 66, 339 n. 17
Mardijk, Flanders, 245
Margaret of Austria, duchess of Parma, Regent of
Netherlands, 1559-67, 117-22, 339 n. 19
Margate, England, 185, 198, 233-5
Marfa of Austria, daughter of Charles V, dowager
empress, 88-9, 220
Mariana, Juan de, writer, 288
Marliano, Juan de, diplomat, 324 n. 71
Marnix of St. Aldegonde, Philip, Dutch leader, 132,
369 n. 51
Marseilles, France, 8
Martin, Colin, historian, 262
Martinez de Recalde, Juan, see Recalde, Juan
Martinez de
Mary of Guise, regent of Scotland 1554—60, 150,
152
Mary Stuart, queen of Scots, 1542-87, 149, 155,
157-63. 186, 190-1, 222, 313 n. 89, 349 nn. 20,
23
Mary Tudor, queen of England 1553-8, 86, 89, 147,
347 nn. 2, 5
massacre of St. Bartholomew, see St. Bartholomew,
massacre of
mathematics in early modern Europe, 62, 63, 322 n.
53. 338 n. 4
Matthias of Habsburg, archduke, governor-general of
the Netherlands 1577-81, Holy Roman Emperor
1612-19, 80
Maximilian I of Habsburg, Holy Roman Emperor
1493-1519. 283
Maximilian II of Habsburg, Holy Roman Emperor
1564-76:
and Augsburg meeting (1551), 78-9; relations
with Philip II, 80, 84, 93; religious policies,
80, 93, 119; strategic priorities, 326 n. 11
Maxwell, John Lord, Scottish nobleman, 192
McNamara, Robert, U.S. Secretary of Defense,
1961-8, 11-12
Mechelen, Netherlands, 127, 129;
Medici, Francesco de, grand duke of Tuscany 1574—
87, 49, 179, 182
Medici, House of, see also Catherine de Medici and
Florence, duchy of
Medina Sidonia, Don Alonso Perez de Guzman el
Bueno, duke of, commander of the Spanish
Armada 1588:
and Armada, 23-5, 38, 104, 107, 189, 220, 233-
5, 258, 261—8; and duke of Parma, 206, 231,
233-4. 245, 265; archives, 398-9; indiscretion,
23-5. 219; Instructions, 71, 232, 263-5, 375
n. 20; twice refused audience by Philip II, 20,
315 n. io6
Medinaceli, Don Juan de la Cerda, duke of, viceroy
of Sicily 1557—65, appointed to succeed Alba as
governor-general of the Netherlands 1571:
and Djerba expedition, 91; and England, 130-1,
161; and Netherlands, 130—3, 161
memory, as a tool of government, 58, 59, 321 nn.
40-2, 330 n. 64
Mendieta, Geronimo de, Franciscan friar, 27, 58
Mendoza, Don Bernardino de, Spanish ambassador to
England 1578-84, and France 1584-91:
and Armada, 190, 220, 227, 244; and England,
169, 171, 176, 191, 194, 222, 319 n. 29; and
France, 230
Menendez de Aviles, Pedro, naval commander:
commander of High Seas Fleet, 39, 139—40;
commands Florida expedition, 38, 56, 139
Messianic Imperialism, 77, 92-3, 97-109, 143,
159-62, 275—6, 286, 336 nn. 117, 119
See also Philip II, religious policies
Metz, France, 129
Mexico City, 50—1
see also New Spain; communications in the
sixteenth century
Middelburg, Zealand, 136
Milan, duchy of:
and Spanish imperial system, 8, 30, 33, 83-4, 106,
121, 170, 190, 217, 235, 277; government of,
9, 277; resources of, 217, 328 n. 35
Milford Haven, Wales, 169
Military Revolution, 83, in—12, 252
Miracles and Grand Strategy, 13, 43, 106—7, 162,
198, 268, 275-6, 286, 337 nn. 122-124
See also Messianic Imperialism; Philip II, strategic
style
Modena, duchy of, 327 n. 27; see also Ferrara
Mogul Empire, India:
intelligence-gathering in, 289; messianic
imperialism in, 99
Moltke, Helmut von, strategist, 72
Molucca islands, Indonesia, 8, 163, 171
Molyneux, Thomas Moore, strategist, 209, 227—8
Mombasa, East Africa, 189
Mondejar, Don Luis Hurtado de Mendoza, marquis
of, minister of Philip II, 23
Mondoucet, Claude de, French envoy in the
Netherlands 1572-74, 127, 138
Mons, Hainaut, 126, 128
Monteagudo, count of, see Almazan, marquis of
Montigny, Floris de Montmorency, baron, 320 n. 37
Montmorency-Damville, Henry duke of, 170
Morales, Ambrosio de, historian, 60
Moreo, Juan, official and diplomat, 232
Moresin, Francesco, soldier and messenger, 234, 376
n. 23
Morgan, Walter, soldier and artist, 133
Morisco rebellion, see Alpujarras
Motley, John Lothrop, historian, 403
Moura, Don Cristobal de, Spanish ambassador to
Portugal 1578—80, councillor and chamberlain of
Philip II, 24, 277
Moya de Contreras, Pedro, Archbishop of Mexico
and Viceroy of New Spain, 103
442 Index
‘Murphy’s Law’ and Philip II, 107-8, 337 n. 127
Naarden, Holland, 127
Nantes, France, 217
Naples, kingdom of:
defence of, 83; maps of, 321 n. 46; revolt of
330 n. 63; Spanish control over, 6, 9,
80-2, 85, 97, 189
Narrow Seas squadron, see Royal Navy
Nassau, counts of, see Justinus of Nassau; Louis of
Nassau; William of Nassau; William Louis of
Nassau
Navarre, kingdom of, 7, 274; see also Henry W;
Anthony d’Albret; Jeanne d’Albret
navy:
English, see Royal Navy; Spanish
Atlantic, before Armada, 71, 83, 118, 138—
40, 167, 184-5, 189, 202, 252-3, 255,
257> 260—8, 345 nn. 81—2; Atlantic, after
Armada, 271—2, 277, 279; Mediterranean,
71, 83-4, 116, 118, 131, 134, 139,
202; Ottoman, 70—1, 118, 120-1
Nemours, treaty of (1585), 172, 192
Netherlands:
and Charles V, 88-9, 113, 115-16; defence of,
117; iconoclasm in, 121; inquisition in, 104,
120; new bishoprics in, 118; religious situation,
103, 116—17, 120; finances of, 9—10, 116—17,
123-4. 130, 136, 143. 303 n- 29;
foreign relations with:
England, 113, 200; France, 169—70;
Mediterranean states, 119—20, 339 n. 17
naval power, 241, 243-4, 247 see also Armada of
Flanders; revolts in (before 1566), 89, 116; and
Spain, 13, 35, 52, 87-92, 115-46, 273-5;
towns of, 115, 118, 12(), see also Alba, duke of;
Dutch Republic; Philip II
Neumann, John von, mathematician, 107
‘New Bishoprics scheme’ (1561), 118
New Spain, viceroyalty of
communications with, 50-2, 54, 55, 58; defence
of, 280; government of, 9, 58, 329 n. 45, 399;
maps of 63-4; and Philip II, 54, 58-9, 70, 87;
see also Spanish America
‘New Laws’ (1542), 329 n. 45
Niccolo the Albanian, assassin, 135
Nieuwpoort, Flanders:
and Spanish Armada (1587-8), 235, 237-8, 245;
battle of (1600), 279; Spanish seizure of (1583),
170
Nightingale, Florence, philanthropist and writer,
281, 295
Nixon, Richard M., US president 1969—74, 311 n.
77
non-linear history, xviii, xix
Nonsuch, treaty of (1585), 175, 357 n. 9
Norfolk, Thomas Howard, duke of 161—2
North, Frederick Lord, British prime minister 1770—
82, xviii
Nuestra Senora del Rosario, Armada ship, 213, 251,
261
Nueva Recopilacion, 37
‘Nun of Lisbon’, see Visitacion, Sor Marfa de la
nuncios, papal, see Speciano, Cesare, and Ormanetto,
Niccolo
Olivares, Don Enrique de Guzman count of, Spanish
ambassador in Rome 1582—91:
career of 39, 57, 59, 371 n. 71; diplomatic
activity of 169, 179-82, 184, 190, 213, 230,
358 n. 20
Olivares, Don Caspar de Guzman, count of, duke of
San Lucar, chief minister of Philip IV 1622-43,
287, 330 n. 64, 397
Oliveira, Fernando, naval theorist, 257
Oran, North Africa, 118
Orange, William of see William of Nassau
Ordenagdes Philipinas, 37
Order of the Golden Fleece, 83
Ordnance Office, English, 227, 255-6, 261
Orleans, Charles duke of, son of Francis I, 89
Ormanetto, Nicholas, papal nuncio in Spain 1572—7,
164
Ostend, Flanders, 112, 242
Ottoman Empire:
archives, 400; Djerba, capture of (1560), 91, 118,
152; La Goletta and Tunis, capture of (1574),
6, loi, 106, 134, 140; Lepanto, battle of
(1571). 7. 123; Malta, siege of (1565), 5, 119;
relations with other states:
England, 192; France, 134, 216; Spain, 70, 92,
loi, 106, 108, 118-19, 121-3, 134, 145,
152, 192, 216, 324 n. 71; Venice, 6, 122-3,
160
see also navy, Ottoman
Ovando, Juan de, president of the council of the
Indies 1571—5, and Finance, 1574—5, 9, 62—3
Overijssel, province of, 127, 275
Pacific ocean, first map of (1574-5), 62
Padilla, Don Martin de, Adelantado of Castile and
count of St. Gadea, commander of Spanish High
Seas Fleet; naval commands, 194, 277, 281; on
grand strategy, 281-2, 392 n. 2
Paez de Castro, Juan, intellectual, 61-2
Pallavicino, Horatio, financier in English service,
181
Papacy:
and Charles V, 7, 80; and England, 150, 169,
179; and Ferrara, 83; and Philip II, 7, 9, 42,
65, 80-1, 96-7, 180, 190-1, 357 nn. 11-12;
and treaty of Vervins, 279-80; patronage rights
of 9, 80, 96
Papal States, see Papacy
Pardo, palace of, 18, 21
Paris, France, 200, 274
Parma, Alexander Farnese, prince (from 1586 duke)
of captain-general of Army of Flanders 1578-92:
and the Enterprise of England, 169, 185, 189,
196-7, 205-6, 212, 230-2, 234, 249; and
Philip II, 38, 54, 82, 107, 182, 196, 244, 272-
4, 287; archives, 230-1, 374 n. 12, 399;
campaigns, 170-1, 175-6, 272-5; debts, 236,
327 n. 23; diplomacy, 198-201, 212; enemies,
231—2, 235, 244, 374 nn. 13—14; see also Army
of Flanders; Armada, Spanish; Medina Sidonia,
duke of
Parma, Ottavio Farnese, duke of, 121
Paul III, pope 15 34—49, 80
Paul IV, pope 1555-9, 7. 80-1, 326 n. 13
peace-making, Spanish efforts at, 89—90, 92—3, 105—
7, 140-5, 275, 279, 280
Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, 108, 207, 224—5
Perez de Herrera, Cristobal, minister and writer, 32
Perez, Antonio, Spanish Secretary of State, 1565-79,
23-5. 50, 65, 402
Index
Perez, Gonzalo, Spanish Secretary of State, 1556-65,
25. 59, 65, 91, 102, 338 n. 16
Perrenot de Granvelle, Nicholas, principal adviser of
Charles V, 325 n. 2
Peru, viceroyalty of 10, 50, 295, 303 nn. 30-31
Philip I, king of Castile 1504-06, 48, 283
Philip II, king of Spain, 1556—98:
Administrative practices
assassination, 14, 83, 134—5, I75, 190;
audiences, 19-20, 305 n. 17, 230-6 n. 24,
307 n. 28; communications, 12, 40, 48, 52,
55—6, 212—13, 319; corruption, 31—3; Court
factions, 25, 59, 118-19, 130, 141, 308 n.
46; delays, 65—70; delegating authority, 26-
8, 30, 68, 144, 263; diplomacy, 48, 56, 82;
innovations, 22, 23, 25, 29, 37—8, 116;
legislation, 9, 37, 323 n. 66; maps, 59-60,
321 n. 46; routine, 14, 17, i8, 21-3, 28,
31-6, 66, 277; secrecy, 32, 122, 173, 219,
312 nn. 82—3; see also conciliar system,
juntas
Government policies
defence, 4-6, 89-90, 171-2, 180-1, 189,
271-2
finance, 108, 124, 170, 198-9, 353 nn 79-80;
State bankruptcies, 88, loi, 279; failure to
understand, 21, 41-2, 198-9, 305 n. 19
foreign policy, see below, relations with foreign
powers; information, 48-65, 71; Messianic
Imperialism, 92-3, 96, 98-109, 113, 159—
62, 198, 270-1, 276, 286, 334 n. 96, 336 n.
117; naval, 122, 131, 189, 194-5, 267,
271-2, 388; propaganda, 3-5, 94-8, 301
religious policies:
in Spain, 34, 42, 91, 96, loi, 118, 286;
towards other Catholics, 130, 156-8, 273;
towards Jews, 91, 277; towards
Protestants, 86, 92, 104, 113, 119, 154—
8, 170; see also Papacy (below)
Personal
absences from Spain, 36, 151, 348; accession of,
xv; assassination attempts on, 14, 304 n. ii;
‘cognitive rigidity’, xix, 43, 114, 272;
compared with David, 96, 286; compared
with Moses, 73, 286-7; criticisms of 40,
65-6, 101-2, 270, 332 n. 78, 335 n. 109;
despair of 42-3, 143, 271; education of, 42;
health, 13, 43-4, 195, 277-8, 304 n. 4, 316
n. 128; histories, 402—4; insecurity, 42;
irresolution, 130-1, 194-5, 225, 275-6,
347; isolation, 40, 79, 163, 305 n. 17;
limitations, 28-9, 42-5, 72-4; memory, 20,
58, 320 n. 43; military experience, 72, 268;
popularity, 14; relations with other family
members, 77-80, 117, 119; religion of 93-
loi, 105-6, 162, 203, 314 n. 96, 333 nn.
88-89; ‘reputation,’ 89-90, 134, 156, 195;
‘rex et sacerdos,’ 96, 286-7; self-image, 13,
270—1; stress, 42—4; succession, 13, 279, 310
n. 65; verbal diarrhoea, 36, 314 n. 96; will,
42, 97, 98; wives, see Anna of Austria,
Elisabeth de Valois, Marfa Manuela, Mary
Tudor; ‘zero defects’ mentality, 37, 42, 71
Relations with foreign rulers and states
Baltic Powers, 86—7
England, xv, 86, 88, 105-6, 130-1, 147-203,
212, 302 n. 15; Armada, 41, 71, 180, 186,
194—6, 200—1, 210; economic relations, 124,
443
156-7, 173-6, 189; religious policy, 105—6,
148-9,154-5;
France, 6, 88, 153, 272-3, 330; Catholic
League, 86, 172, 192, 199-200, 272; armed
intervention in, 125, 274-6, 328 n. 42;
succession ambitions, 170-2, 274, 285;
treaties with, 85-6, 116, 149, 192, 278-9;
relations with kings of, 85—6, 93, 119, 157,
172, 273
Holy Roman Empire, 78-80
Ireland
and Armada, 184, 186—7
Irish Catholics, 158, 160, 164
Thomas Stukeley, 160—2
Tyrone’s rebellion, 54, 278-9
Italy (independent states), 49, 81—2, 89
Ottoman Empire, 6-7, 70-1, 88, 89, 92, 121,
145, 152, 192, 324 n. 71
Papacy, 7, 80-2, 96-7, 150, 155, 164, 179-84,
190, 213, 274, 322 nn. 80-2
Portugal (before 1580), 86-7, 166-7
Scotland
James VI, 191, 280
Mary Stuart, 153-5, 157-63, 164-5, 169,
186, 190-1, 313 n. 89, 349 nn. 20, 23,
360 n. 42
Swiss cantons, 190, 201
Relations with his own subjects and states
and domestic opposition, 54, 113, 332, 336;
Aragon, 92, 275; Castile, 36, 73, 80, 88, 91,
96, 102, 269—70; Milan, 8, 33, 83—4, 170,
277, 347 n. 108; Mexico (New Spain), 9—10,
58—9, 70, 71, 87, 329 n. 45; Naples, xv, 97,
321 n. 46; Netherlands, xv, xvii, 4, 23, 39—
40, 54, 89, 115-46, 179-80, 200, 274, 279,
347 n. 107; Philippines, 8, 50, 69, 89, 280;
Portugal (after 1580), xv, 102, 257, 280,
283
Relations with subordinates
Don John of Austria, 38—9, 144—5, 3^5 n- 106;
duke of Alba, 13, 38-9, 55, 59, 121-3, 132,
141, 149, 152, 157-63, 282, 314 n. 103;
duke of Medina Sidonia, 20, 38, 40, 71, 232,
263—5, 330 n. 64; duke of Parma, 38, 54,
82, 107, 182, 196, 200-1, 232, 244, 272-4,
287; financial officials, 41, 198—9; other
ministers, 37-9, 59, 65, 119, 136-7, 144,
165, 182, 185, 269, 277, 314
Strategic style 2-3, 7, 77, 89-101, 105-6, 120,
139, 162, 188, 189, 194-5, 197. 251, 267,
273, 277
Philip III, king of Spain 1598-1621, 13, 28, 100,
138, 277, 279-80, 284, 310 n. 65
Philip IV, king of Spain 1621-65, 287, 333 n. 90
Philippines, archipelago:
discovery of 62, 69, 322 n. 50; role in Spanish
grand strategy, 8, 50, 89, 280; settlement of
94-5
Piatti, Giovanni Battista, military engineer, 35, 185,
214, 315 n. Ill, 358 n. 22
Piedrola, Miguel de, soldier and ‘prophet,’ 34, 104
Pimentel, Don Diego de. Armada commander, 176,
229,235, 261
Pius IV, pope 1559—65, 150
Pius V, pope 1565-72, 83, 120, 151, 157-9, 161
Plymouth, England, 197, 264, 366
Pole, Reginald, Cardinal, 332 n. 78
‘Pompeo Pellegrini,’ see Standen, Anthony
444 Index
popes, see Gregory XIII; Paul III; Paul IV; Pius V;
Sixtus V
Portland Bill, England, 233
Portugal, kingdom of:
commerce raiding, 255; instructions of King
Manuel, 257; map of, 61; naval doctrine, 257;
overseas possessions of, 22, 189; relations with
Spain, XV, 40, 86-7, 92, 166-7, 280, 283
Powle, Stephen, English spy, 217
Prdgmatica sobre las cortestas, see Proclamation on
etiquette
Prescott, William H., historian, 397
Primrose, English ship, 174, 355 nn. 96, too
Privy Council, see England
Proclamation on etiquette (1586), 35
Propaganda:
anti-Spanish, 95-6, 98-9; Spanish, 3, 4, 5, 94-8,
301 n. 8, 302 n. ii; see also Philip II
prophecy in the sixteenth-century, 34, 104, 270,
288
Prospect Theory, 283
Protestant Reformation, see religion
Providentialism, see Messianic Imperialism
Quadra, Alvaro de la, Spanish ambassador in
England 1559-64, 102
Queralt, Don Luis de, military commander, 237
Quiroga, Caspar de. Cardinal, inquisitor and
minister, 58, 102
Quito, viceroyalty of Peru, 3
Raleigh, Sir Walter, historian and courtier, 205,
254, 261, 266, 292
Ramus, Peter (Pierre de la Ramee), philosopher, 343
n. 66
Ranke, Leopold von, historian, xvii
Recalde, Juan Martinez de, ‘Admiral General’ of the
Armada:
alternative operational plans for Armada, 264-6,
382 n. 89, 390 n. 14; combat experience of,
255, 258, 264; expedition to Ireland, 167
Relaciones Topogrdfkas'.
in Spanish America, 62—3
in Castile, 61—2, 321 n. 47
relics, Philip II and, 98
religion in the sixteenth century:
Catholicism, 94—99; Protestantism, 96, 99, 103;
as strategic factor, 98-9, 104, 113, 142, 147-8,
205; see also Messianic Imperialism; Papacy
reputation, political significance of, 89-90, 195
Requesens, Don Luis de, ambassador of Philip II in
Rome 1564—8, governor of Milan 1571—3,
governor-general of the Netherlands 1573-76:
archives, 398; criticizes delays of Philip II, 65;
and Netherlands, 39, 56-7, 132, 136-8, 141-
2, 164, 345 n. 89; and Spanish court factions,
25, 308 nn. 45—46; and Philip II, 59, 99, 132,
284-5, 318 n. 24
Residencia, see Spain, residencias and visitas
Revenge, English warship, 255, 272
Ribadeneira, Pedro de, S. J.:
and England, 96, 201; and Portugal, 285;
criticizes Philip II, 103; propaganda, 96, 201
Ribeiro Gaio, Joao, bishop of Malacca, 8, 50
Ridolfi, Roberto, double agent, 160—3, 350 nn. 34
38
Rivera Bernardez, Jose de, historian, 95
Rodriguez de Ledesma, Don Mendo, Spanish
ambassador to Savoy 1599—1604, 77
Rodriguez-Salgado, Marfa Jose, hisrorian, 17
Rojas, Antonio de, courtier, 305
Roman Empire, 275
Rome:
Spanish archive in, 66; Spanish influence in, 80—1
Roosevelt, Franklin D., US president 1933—44, 3i
Rouen, France, 175, 191, 217
Royal Navy:
administration, 193, 253, 294; and Armada, 186,
222, 226, 243, 252, 259-60, 269; artillery,
255—7, 261—2, 385 nn. 18, 20; composirion of,
167, 193, 202, 226, 252-3, 267; displacement,
252-3, 383 n. 9; policy, 151, 163-4, 185-7,
193, 254; rejects Dutch warships (1588), 245;
size, 252-3; tactics, 248, 251, 261, 264; see also
England
Rudolf II, Holy Roman Emperor 1576—1612, 80,
220
Ruiz, Simon, merchant-banker, 57
Rusk, Dean, US Secretary of State 1961—9, 310 n.
69
Saint Bartholomew, massacre of 1572, loi, 126, 334
n. too
Saint James, patron saint of Spain, 167
Saint Quentin, battle of 1557, 42, 99, loi
saints in the sixteenth century:
creation of, 81; intercession of, 102, 335 n. 103
Salazar, Juan de, political theorist, 99
Salic Law, French, 171
Saluzzo, marquisate of, 8, 82
San Agustfn, Gaspar de, historian, 94—5
San Juan de Uliia, 156
San Martin, flagship of Medina Sidonia, 258, 260,
262, 266, 387 n. 44
Sanchez Coello, Alonso, artisr, 15
Sandoval, Prudencio de, historian, 77
Sant Alessandro, flagship of duke of Parma, 241
Santa Cruz, Alvaro de Bazan, marquis of, captaingeneral
of the Ocean Sea 1584-88:
and Armada, 56, 71, 106, 194-5, i97> 217;
career, 38; disobeys Philip II, 184, 197; and
Enterprise of England, 56, 71, 106, 167-9,
180, 182—4, i94~5> i97> 217; and espionage,
56, 209-10, 217, 319 n. 29
Santander, Spain, 122, 139, 154, 267
Santo Domingo, Caribbean island, 181
Santoyo, Sebastian de, Philip II’s valet, 313 n. 94
Sao Miguel, Azores island, barrle of (1582), 167, 257
Satow, Sir Edward, diplomat, 47
Savoy, duchy of:
French occupation of, 1536-59, 85; 1600-1, 279;
strategic importance of, 18, 83, 85, 272
Savoy, Charles Emanuel, duke of 1580—1630, 180;
and Finale Figure, 84; and Saluzzo, marquisate of,
83, 272; attacked by Henry IV, 278-9; marriage
to Catalina of Austria, 82, 172; relations with
Spain, 82, 230, 327 n. 29
Savoy, Emanuel Philibert, duke of 1553—80:
and Netherlands, 121, 329 n. 55, 343 n. 71; and
Philip II, 30—1, 84
Scheldt river, Belgium, 241—2
Schlieffen Plan (1914), 108, 217, 337 n. 128
Scotland, kingdom of:
and England, 150, 155; and France, 147, 150;
and Spain, 186, 187, 191-2, 280, 360 n. 43;
see also James VI; Mary Stuart
Index 445
Sea Beggars, the, 124-5, 128, 138
seapower, 125, 138-40, 251-68, 272, 344 n. 78
see also navy
Sebastian I, king of Portugal, 1553-78, 86, 102,
165
Seco, Pedro Alvares, cartographer, 61
Segusson, Pierre de, lord of Longlee, see Longlee
Sepulveda, Geronimo de, friar and chronicler, 270
Sepulveda, Juan Gines de, educator and historian, 3
Sessa, Gonzalo Fernandez de Cordoba, third duke of,
commander of Philip IPs Mediterranean fleet,
1576-8, 282
Sessa, Gonzalo Fernandez de Cordoba, fourrh duke
of, Spanish ambassador in Rome 1592—1603, iii
Seville, Spain:
links with America, 50, 51-2; religious
organization of, 101
Seymour, Henry, Lord, naval commander, 244, 247,
249
Sicily, kingdom of, 39, 83, 85, 91, 118, 189, 283
Sidney, Sir Philip, soldier and poet, 336 n. 119
Siena, republic of, 326 n. 17
Sigiienza, Jose de, friar and historian:
on the Armada’s impact, 270; on Philip II at the
Escorial, 21
Silva, Don Juan de, count of Portalegre, courtier and
Spanish ambassador in Portugal 1576-8, 63-8,
288
Simancas, archives of, 66, 323 n. 60, 397
Sixtus V, pope 1585-90, 179, 184, 190-1, 201,
213, 286
Sluis, Flanders, 241
Smerwick, Ireland, 165-7, 182, 352 n. 57
Solent, see Isle of Wight
Spain, Monarchy of:
administration, 22, 33, 40-4, 54, 57, 59, 102-3,
118, 277; as composite state, 91—2, 112-13;
communications, 48, 50-2, 54, 56, 156; Court,
17. 25, 59, 118-19, 130, 141,305 n. 16;
diplomatic service, 56, 82, 155; economy, 87,
112—3, 189; export of jokes, 4; finances, 2—3,
9-10, 87-8, loi, 112, 143-5, 151-2, 164,
170, 198-9, 253, 279;
foreign relations with:
England, 6-7, 105, 108, 113, 115, 152-7,
161-4, t-jo-s, 174-7, 189-90, 192, 212,
225-7, 280, 285, 356 n. 104; France 6, 8,
85-6, 93. 108, 124, 149, 170, 172, 192,
199, 272-6, 278-9, 285, 338 n. 10;
Germany, 280; Italy, 81-4, 90; see also
Ferrara, Florence, Genoa, Mantua, Papacy,
Savoy, Venice; Ottoman Empire, 70, 92,
loi, 106, 108, 118—19, 121—3, 134. 145,
152, 192, 216, 324 n. 71; Portugal (before
1580), 86—7, 166—7; Swiss Cantons, 190
intelligence services, 47-65, 193, 216-17, 220-3;
maps and surveys, 59-63; navy, see Navy,
Spanish, and Armada, Spanish; public opinion,
189, 202; rebellions in, see Aragon, Alpujarras;
relarions with other possessions of Philip II:
in Italy, 80—5; Netherlands, 33, 90, loi, 116,
278; Portugal (after 1580), 102, 189;
Spanish America, see Spanish America
religion, 96-7, 202-3
residencias and visitas, 33, 59, 119, 232; strategic
priorities, 92-3, 184, 330 n. 64, 331 n. 68
wars of:
conduct, 125-34; cost, 87-8, 111-13, 123,
130—5; difficulty of ending, 89—90, 92-3,
105—7, I40~5; 275, 279, 280; frequency, 2,
87; see also Army of Flanders and Armada,
Spanish
see also Philip II
Spanish America, 2, 181; religion in, 9, 58-9;
finances, 10, 70; Philip II and, 9-10, 50-52;
residencias and visitas in, 9; surveys of, 9, 62—64; see
also New Spain; Peru
Spanish Armada, see Armada, Spanish
Spanish Road, esrablished 1567:
role in Enterprise of England, 165, 189, 235; use
of, 48, 54-5, 165, 170, 358 n. 22
Speciano, Cesare, bishop of Novara and nuncio in
Spain 1586—8, 20, 306 n. 22, 335 n. 109
Spengler, Oswald, writer, 47
Spes, Guerau de, Spanish ambassador to England,
1568-72, 125, 155-7, 160, 176
spies, use of, 56, 83, 214, 219, 221, 223, 237-9
Spmola, Ambrosio, commander of Army of Flanders
1603-28, 283-4
Stafford, Sir Edward, English ambassador to France
1582-90:
debrs of, 221—2; on state of France, 200, 222;
treason of, 193, 221-3, 3^7 n. 34, 368 n. 41,
371 n. 66
Standen, Sir Anthony, spy, 217, 310, 371 n. 10, 372
n. 74
strategy, see Grand Strategy, and Philip II, strategic
style; and Spain
stress, impacr upon policy-making, 72—5, 289—90
Stuart, Mary, see Mary Sruart
Stukeley, Thomas, Irish advenrurer, 160—5, 351 n.
43
‘sub-imperialism’ in Spanish Monarchy, 91—2, 151—
2, 157-63
Suleiman the Magnificent, Ottoman Sultan, 1520—
66:
death of, 121; Messianic Imperialism of, 99
supernatural and politics, 98-107, 336 n. 112, see
also miracles
Swiss cantons, 190, 201
Tassis, Juan Bautista de, minister and historian,
Spanish ambassador in France 1580—5, inspecrorgeneral
of the Spanish Army of Flanders 1586—91:
and Armada, 367 n. 37, 377 n. 42; and France,
354 n. 85; and Netherlands, 232, 374 n. 14
taxation in Spanish Monarchy, see Spain, finances
Taxis family, courier service of, 48
Teixeira, Joao de, critic of Philip II, 402-3
Tenth Penny, Netherlands tax, see alcabala
Terceira, island in Azores, 38, 102, 167
Teresa of Avila see Avila, Teresa of
Terrones, Francisco de, preacher, 17, 295—6
Thatcher, Margaret, British Prime Minister 1979—
90, 312 n. 80, 333 n. 89
Throckmorton, Francis, conspirator, 169, 171, 175,
353 n. 71
Titian (Tiziano Vercelli), artist, 95, loi
Toledo, Don Fadrique de, see Alba, fourth duke of
Toledo, Don Garcia de, viceroy of Sicily 1565—7 and
commander of Philip IPs Medirerranean fleet
1564-8, 38
Toledo, Don Hernando de, viceroy of Catalonia
1580—90 and councillor of Philip II, 59, 195
Toledo, Don Pedro de, viceroy of Peru 1568—80, 39
Toledo, Spain, 17, 63
446 Index
Tordesillas, treaty of 1494, 62—3
Toulon, France, 8
Trent, council of, see council of Trent
Trinidad Valencera, Armada transport, 168, 262
Tripoli, North Africa, 6
Truman, Harry S., US president 1944-53, 335 n.
107
Tunis, North Africa, 7, loi, 134, 140
Turkey, see Ottoman Empire
Tuscany, grand duchy of, see Florence, duchy of
Tyrone, Hugh O’Neill, earl of, 54, 278-9
United States of America:
and Vietnam War, xvii, ii—12, 137—8;
presidents, administrative methods of, xvii, 31,
32, 68, 311 n. 76, 312 n. 80; see also ]oVinson,
Lyndon; Kennedy, John; Lincoln, Abraham;
Nixon, Richard; Roosevelt, Franklin; Truman,
Harry
Universal Monarchy, Habsburg dreams of, 3—4
Urbino, duchy of, 209, 327 n. 22
Utrecht, Netherlands, 124—5
Valdes, Francisco de, soldier, 136—7
Valdes, Don Pedro de. Armada commander, 214,
261-2, 375 n. 18
Valladolid, Spain, 17, 52, 53, 151
Valsam, palace of, Spain, 18
van Creveld, Martin, writer, 47
van de Rohe, Mies, architect, 2
van den Berg, Count William, 126, 128
van den Wyngaerde, Anton, artist, 18, 59—60, 65
van der Hammen, Lorenzo, biographer of Philip II,
32, 403
Vanegas, Alonso, Armada officer, 258, 262, 386 n.
34
Vargas Mexia, Juan de, Spanish ambassador in Savoy
1571-7, and France 1577-80, 23, 52, 165
Vazquez, Alonso, soldier and writer, 236—9, 244—5
Vazquez, Mateo, private secretary to Philip II:
administrative style, xvi, 25—30, 32, 397; and
Philip II, 32-3, 101-2, 131, 270, 307 n. 37,
308 n. 45; opposes intervention in France, 275
Vazquez de Arce, Rodrigo, president of the council
of Finance 1584-92, 108, 198
Veere, Zealand, 138
Vega, Don Hernando de, president of the council of
Finance 1579—84, and of the council of the Indies
1584-91, 29, 353 n. 79
Vega, Lope de, poet, 96
Venice, republic of:
and Holy League 1571-3, 16, 26, 89, 123; and
Spain, 28, 81—3, 218; communications of, 49—
50, 52-3; diplomacy of, 49-50, 209, 217, 306
n. 27; see also Dona, Leonardo, Lippomano,
Hieronimo
Veracruz, Mexico, 50-1
Vercellio, Marco, artist, 16
Vergil (Publius Vergilius Marro) Roman poet, 4
Vervins, treaty of, 1598, 279
Verzosa, Juan de, 403 n. 27
Vietnam War, 1964—1974:
‘blizzard of problems’ caused by, 12; compared
with Dutch Revolt, 137, 344 n. 74
Viglius van Aytta, minister and historian, 339 n. 18,
406 n. 27
Villavicencio, Fray Lorenzo de, informal adviser of
Philip II on Dutch affairs, 103, 309 n. 57
Vinas, Antonio de las, see van den Wyngaerde,
Anton
Visitas, general inspections, 8—9, 33
Visitacion, Sor Marfa de la, the ‘nun of Lisbon’, 104,
201, 270
Walsingham, Francis, English Secretary of State
1573—90; and Netherlands, 269; and Spain, 170,
172—3; archives, 401; espionage activities of, 190,
215-17, 223-4; workload of, 223, 226
wars, Spain’s, see Spain, wars; and Laws of war
Waterford, Ireland, 187
Whitelocke, Sir James, English judge, 269
William I, duke of Normandy, king of England
1066—87, 182, 184
William III, Dutch leader, king of Great Britain
1689-1702, 337 n. 120, 380 n. 62
William of Nassau, Prince of Orange:
and Netherlands, 120, 123-31, 138, 142, 170,
245; and Philip II, 117, 122, 219; Apologie,
95—6, 402; archives, 402; assassination attempts
against, 14, 134, 171, 175
William Louis of Nassau, Stadholder of Eriesland,
10, 206
Winter, Sir William, naval commander, 212, 237,
243. 255
Wohlstetter, Roberta, historian, 224—5
World War I, onset of, 47—8, 73, 337 n. 128
Yung-Cheng, emperor of China, 1723—1735, 290
Zacatecas, Mexico, 95
Zaragoza, Spain, 275
Zayas, Gabriel de, secretary of the council of State
1566—79, and of the council of Italy 1579—93:
advocates assassination of enemies, 135, 343 n.
66; career, 25, 29, 59, 107; and Netherlands,
123; leaks secrets, 219; relations with duke of
Alba, 25, 107, 124; religious views, 104, 135
Zealand, province of, 124-38, 242-5, 238, 247,
274
zero defects mentality, 37, 42, 71
Zuniga, Don Antonio de, Spanish military
commander, 236
Zuniga, Don Balthasar de, Spanish ambassador in
Brussels 1599—1603, France 1607-8, and the
Empire 1608-16; councillor of Philip III and IV,
258, 287, 330 n. 58
Zuniga, Don Juan de, Spanish ambassador in Rome
1568-79, viceroy of Naples 1579-82; principal
advisor to Philip II on foreign policy, 1583—6:
and England, 165, 169, 180-1, 185; and France,
171-2; and Netherlands, 56—7, 135, 181;
archives, 398; as diplomat, 56; career, 39, 56—
7, 91, 320 n. 31
Zutphen, Gelderland, 126—7, 129, 340
Toijfcll! CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
__198 Main Stacks
LOAN PERIOD 1
HOME USE
ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS.
Renewls and Rechorges may be made 4 days prior to the due date
Books may be Renewed by calling 642-3405.
DUE AS STAMPED BELOW
k4A n—7T—Z—TT\ je
1
iwunggg
,f/\M n ?. onn-i 1®^ 0 6 2005
_ .lUL 9. a 2003
~ NOV 0 i Z003 0 7 Pi
-----------------------------
MAP ' 5 2000 ' rF*'- "L 7 2003 ~SEP 0 4 2009-
JAN 02 2002 SEFft72flW
__ mat 2 a ?np4
Qj ZOOl ■
mar I 6 2011
UNIVERSITY OF Cr \l IFODMIA Dcni/Ci r\,'
tr~9
BERKELEY, CA 94720-6000

D P
179
P39
1998
MAIN
